URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#bodyContent
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page
Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Main Page Main Page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikimedia Foundation MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikimedia Outreach Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikifunctions Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Welcome to Wikipedia , the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit . 126,906 active editors 6,964,355 articles in English From today's featured article Jonatan Söderström , co-designer Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number is a 2015 top-down shooter game developed by Dennaton Games and published by Devolver Digital . A sequel to Hotline Miami , it focuses on the prelude and aftermath of that game's protagonist's actions against the Russian mafia in Miami. The player takes on the role of several characters throughout Hotline Miami 2 , witnessing the game's events from their perspectives. In each level, the player is tasked with defeating every enemy through any means possible. The game was released on 10 March 2015 for Linux , OS X , PlayStation 3 , PlayStation 4 , PlayStation Vita , and Windows . It received positive reviews, with critics praising the soundtrack, but the gameplay, level design and narrative received mixed reactions. The game featured a scene depicting sexual assault, which triggered a mostly negative response from media outlets and led to it being refused classification in Australia . ( Full article... ) Recently featured: Ann Arbor, Michigan Anna Filosofova History of infant schools in Great Britain Archive By email More featured articles About Did you know ... John Hogan ...  that tobacco brands like Marlboro , led by John Hogan (pictured) , turned Formula One into a global sport because F1 cars evaded European tobacco advertising restrictions ? ... that one incident in Vatican City caused it to have the highest murder rate in the world in 1998? ... that the earliest of the authentic portraits of Mozart shows the prodigy wearing the clothes of Archduke Maximilian Francis of Austria , given as a gift by Empress Maria Theresa ? ... that a rookie WNBA player crafted a leg sleeve to avoid discomfort and did not expect it to become a fashion trend? ... that the oldest depiction of the Amida Triad in Japanese art was donated to the Imperial Household by Hōryū-ji in 1878? ... that Barack Obama listed an anti-war song as one of his favorite songs of 2022? ... that an "everliving" stonecrop has helped diabetic mice? ... that footage of the 1970 Minneapolis teachers' strike uncovered in 2022 showed an 11-year-old Prince speaking in favor of the striking teachers? ... that the tower of 32 pillars only has 24 pillars? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Andrew Barto In computing, Andrew Barto (pictured) and Richard Sutton are awarded the Turing Award for their work on reinforcement learning . A wildfire in Japan's Iwate Prefecture becomes the largest in the country in at least five decades. Chinese architect Liu Jiakun is awarded the Pritzker Architecture Prize . The United States imposes—and later partially delays—tariffs on Canada and Mexico and increases tariffs on China , incurring retaliatory tariffs from Canada and China. Ongoing : M23 campaign Russian invasion of Ukraine timeline Sudanese civil war timeline Recent deaths : Sylvester Turner Khalil Fong Joey Molland Selwyn Raab Hazel Nell Dukes James Harrison Nominate an article On this day March 10 : Harriet Tubman Day in some parts of the United States; Eliot Spitzer 1695 – Nine Years' War : At the Battle of Sant Esteve d'en Bas , Catalan miquelets attacked a column of French regular infantry and caused them to surrender. 1959 – An anti-Chinese uprising began as thousands of Tibetans surrounded the Potala Palace in Lhasa to prevent the Dalai Lama from leaving or being removed by the Chinese army. 1968 – Vietnam War / Laotian Civil War : North Vietnamese and Pathet Lao forces overwhelmed the American, Laotian, Thai, and Hmong defenders of Lima Site 85 . 1977 – Astronomers using NASA 's Kuiper Airborne Observatory discovered a faint ring system around Uranus . 2008 – The New York Times revealed that Eliot Spitzer (pictured) , Governor of New York, had patronized a prostitution ring . Tvrtko I of Bosnia ( d. 1391) Lillian Wald ( b. 1867) Marie-Eugénie de Jésus ( d. 1898) Rupert Bruce-Mitford ( d. 1994) More anniversaries: March 9 March 10 March 11 Archive By email List of days of the year About From today's featured list Sfax , the first French protected cruiser A series of 33 protected cruisers were built by the French Navy during the 1880s and 1890s. Protected cruisers were differentiated from other cruising warships by their relatively light sloped armor deck that provided a measure of protection against incoming shellfire, as opposed to armored cruisers that relied on heavy belt armor , or unprotected cruisers that lacked armor entirely. The first French protected cruiser, Sfax (pictured) , was designed in the early 1880s in response to the introduction of similar vessels in the British Royal Navy ; two more vessels of similar but larger designs – Tage and Amiral Cécille – followed shortly thereafter. Beginning in the mid-1890s, a series of large cruisers were ordered; the first of these, D'Entrecasteaux , carried the largest guns of any French cruiser. Most of the vessels had relatively uneventful careers, serving in a variety of locations with the main fleets, in the French colonies in Asia, and on patrol in the Atlantic. ( Full list... ) Recently featured: Olympic women's ice hockey players for the United States 77th Academy Awards International Film Music Critics Association Award for Best Original Score for Television Archive More featured lists Today's featured picture Verbena hastata , commonly known as the American vervain, blue vervain, simpler's joy, or swamp verbena, is a perennial flowering plant in the vervain family, Verbenaceae . It grows throughout the continental United States and in much of southern Canada. V. hastata grows as a stiffly erect stem, occasionally branching in the upper half, reaching up to 1.5 metres (5 feet) tall. The stems are four-angled (square), hairy, and green to reddish in color. Leaves are opposite, simple, and measure up to 15 centimetres (6 inches) long and 3 centimetres (1 inch) across. This photograph, which was focus-stacked from 50 separate images, shows a V. hastata inflorescence . Photograph credit: Dominicus Johannes Bergsma Recently featured: Detour Flame-faced tanager SpaceX CRS-20 Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements. Village pump – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues. Site news – Sources of news about Wikipedia and the broader Wikimedia movement. Teahouse – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia. Help desk – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia. Reference desk – Ask research questions about encyclopedic topics. Content portals – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation , a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects : Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning tools Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English . Many other Wikipedias are available ; some of the largest are listed below. 1,000,000+ articles العربية Deutsch Español فارسی ‎ Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Svenska Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 250,000+ articles Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú Български Català Čeština Dansk Esperanto Euskara עברית Հայերեն 한국어 Magyar Norsk bokmål Română Simple English Slovenčina Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe Oʻzbekcha 50,000+ articles Asturianu Azərbaycanca বাংলা Bosanski کوردی Eesti Ελληνικά Frysk Gaeilge Galego Hrvatski ქართული Kurdî Latviešu Lietuvių മലയാളം Македонски မြန်မာဘာသာ Norsk nynorsk ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Shqip Slovenščina ไทย తెలుగు اردو Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=1276485694 " 49 languages العربية Azərbaycanca বাংলা Български Bosanski Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Македонски Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 This page was last edited on 19 February 2025, at 03:32 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Main Page 49 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contents
Wikipedia:Contents - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Navigating Wikipedia's subjects Toggle Navigating Wikipedia's subjects subsection 1.1 Culture 1.2 Geography 1.3 Health 1.4 History 1.4.1 Timelines 1.4.2 Current history entries 1.5 Human activities 1.6 Mathematics and formal sciences 1.7 Natural sciences 1.8 People 1.9 Philosophy 1.10 Reference works 1.10.1 Third-party classification systems 1.10.2 Bibliographies 1.11 Religion 1.12 Society and social sciences 1.13 Technology and applied sciences 2 Wikipedia's main content systems Toggle Wikipedia's main content systems subsection 2.1 Overview articles 2.2 Outline pages 2.3 List pages 2.4 Portals 2.5 Glossaries 2.6 Category system 3 Articles by importance or quality Toggle Articles by importance or quality subsection 3.1 Vital articles 3.2 List of articles every Wikipedia should have 3.3 Featured content 3.4 Good content 4 Spoken articles 5 Alphabetical lists of articles Toggle the table of contents Wikipedia : Contents 48 languages العربية অসমীয়া تۆرکجه বাংলা भोजपुरी Чӑвашла Cebuano Español فارسی ГӀалгӀай 한국어 हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Қазақша Коми Kurdî Magyar മലയാളം Bahasa Melayu မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча پښتو ភាសាខ្មែរ Polski Português Русский ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ Shqip සිංහල سنڌي Српски / srpski Sunda Suomi Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча / tatarça တႆး తెలుగు ไทย Українська Xitsonga ייִדיש 粵語 中文 Edit links Project page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikiversity Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia List of Wikipedia's tables of contents Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Vital articles Featured content Good articles Indices A–Z index Reference Culture Geography Health History Human activities Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology This page lists Wikipedia's tables of contents. For Wikipedia's community directory, see Wikipedia:Directories and indexes . Shortcuts WP:START WP:EXPLORE Explore the vast knowledge of Wikipedia through these helpful resources. If you have a specific topic in mind, use Wikipedia's search box. If you don't know exactly what you are looking for or wish to explore broad areas, click on a link in the header menu at the top of this page, or begin your browsing below: Navigating Wikipedia's subjects Wikipedia organizes its content into distinct subject classifications, each with further subdivisions. Culture Explore the diverse cultures, arts, beliefs, and customs of human societies. Culture Geography Discover the wonders of Earth's lands, features, inhabitants, and planetary phenomena. Geography Health Learn about physical, mental, and social health. Health History Dive into the past through written records and scholarly exploration. History Timelines Explore chronological events through our comprehensive timelines. List of timelines Current history entries Stay up-to-date with encyclopedia entries covering ongoing events. 2025 – Major events this year 2025 in science – Ongoing science findings and technology advancements Portal:Current events – Featured current events and related project activities Human activities Delve into diverse human actions, from leisure and entertainment to industry and warfare. Human activities Mathematics and formal sciences Explore the study of quantity, structure, space, and change. Mathematics and logic Natural sciences Understand natural phenomena through empirical evidence, observations, and experiments. Natural and physical sciences People Learn about collective entities, ethnic groups, and nations. People Philosophy Dive deep into fundamental questions about existence, knowledge, values, and more. Philosophy Reference works Access comprehensive information collections compiled for easy retrieval. Reference works Third-party classification systems Refer to various third-party classification systems linked to Wikipedia articles. Library of Congress Classification List of Dewey Decimal classes Figurative system of human knowledge ( Encyclopédie ) Propædia ( Encyclopædia Britannica ) Tree of knowledge system Universal Decimal Classification Bibliographies Access sources on specific topics for further reading or verification. Wikipedia:List of bibliographies – Compilation of bibliographies Category:Wikipedia bibliographies – Multi-page catalog of Wikipedia's bibliographies Religion Explore social-cultural systems, beliefs, ethics, and more. Religion Society and social sciences Understand collectives, social interactions, political authority, and cultural norms. Society Technology and applied sciences Learn about techniques, skills, methods, and processes in technology and science. Technology Wikipedia's main content systems Overview articles Get summaries of broad topics with links to subtopics, biographies, and related articles. Overview articles Outline pages Explore topics in outline format, linking to more detailed articles. Outline pages List pages Find enumerations of specific types, such as lists of countries and people. List pages Portals Access featured articles, images, news, and more through thematic portals. Portals Glossaries Access lists of terms with definitions through alphabetical glossaries. Glossaries Category system Browse Wikipedia's category pages, which index articles by subject. Category:Main topic classifications – Arts, History, Technology, and more Wikipedia:Contents/Categories – Hand-crafted list of topic categories Category:People – Biographies Articles by importance or quality Vital articles Explore subjects that demand high-quality articles, grouped by importance. Vital articles Level 1 – 10 most important articles Level 2 – 100 most important articles Level 3 – 1,000 most important articles Level 4 – 10,000 most important articles Level 5 – 50,000 most important articles List of articles every Wikipedia should have Explore topics where Wikipedias of all languages should have articles. List of articles every Wikipedia should have List of articles every Wikipedia should have/Expanded Featured content Discover Wikipedia's best, reviewed and vetted for quality. Featured content Featured articles Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Good content Explore well-written, factually accurate articles that meet editorial standards. Good articles Good topics Spoken articles Listen to Wikipedia articles as spoken word recordings. Category:Spoken articles Wikipedia:Spoken articles Alphabetical lists of articles Browse Wikipedia's articles alphabetically. Special:Allpages – List of all current pages Wikipedia:Contents/A–Z index – Alphabetical index Category:Wikipedia indexes – Alphabetical list of topic indexes Wikipedia:Contents/Indices – Indexes sorted by topic area Content listings Topics Current events Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Types Vital articles Featured content Good articles Spoken articles Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Places, people and times Academic disciplines Anniversaries (days of the year) today Sovereign states and dependent territories Timelines decades, centuries, and millennia Indices A–Z index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification v t e Wikipedia directories and indexes Administration pages Protocols Policies Guidelines Manual of Style Assistance Help directory Menu FAQs Interactive help Reader's index Tips Styletips Tools The community Portal Discussions Noticeboards Essays Editor's index Departments Maintenance WikiProjects MediaWiki Wikitext HTML Templates Locutions Abbreviations Edit summaries Glossary Shortcuts Encyclopedia proper Types Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Featured , good Featured articles Good articles Featured lists Featured pictures Featured topics Good topics Topics Current events Reference Culture Geography Health History Math Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology LOC, bios, times Academic disciplines Anniversaries Today Sovereign states and dependent territories Deaths this year Timelines Decades, centuries, and millennia Indexes A–Z index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification Spoken articles Searching Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Contents&oldid=1274726116 " Categories : Wikipedia directories Wikipedia contents Wikipedia navigation Hidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages Wikipedia move-protected project pages This page was last edited on 8 February 2025, at 22:31 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Wikipedia : Contents 48 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Current_events
Portal:Current events - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Portal : Current events 119 languages Ænglisc العربية অসমীয়া अवधी Авар تۆرکجه Banjar 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú Башҡортса Беларуская भोजपुरी Bikol Central Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština ChiTumbuka Dagbanli Dansk Deutsch ދިވެހިބަސް डोटेली Ελληνικά Эрзянь Español Esperanto Estremeñu Euskara Eʋegbe فارسی Føroyskt Français Gaeilge Gaelg 贛語 گیلکی ગુજરાતી 客家語 / Hak-kâ-ngî 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Ирон IsiZulu Íslenska ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan ქართული Қазақша Kurdî Ladino Latina Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Li Niha Limburgs Magyar मैथिली മലയാളം मराठी مصرى مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nāhuatl Nederlands नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Napulitano Нохчийн Occitan Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی پښتو Piemontèis Polski Português Qaraqalpaqsha Română Русиньскый Русский Scots Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල سنڌي Slovenščina Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча / tatarça ไทย Тоҷикӣ ᏣᎳᎩ Tyap Українська اردو Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt Volapük Walon 文言 吴语 ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 Zeêuws 中文 Edit links Portal Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Edit instructions From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Portal maintenance status: (October 2020) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software . Learn how to update the maintenance information here . Wikipedia portal for content related to Current events Wikimedia portal Worldwide current events Sports events Recent deaths Entry views by week list Wikimedia portal Topics in the news Andrew Barto In computing, Andrew Barto (pictured) and Richard Sutton are awarded the Turing Award for their work on reinforcement learning . A wildfire in Japan's Iwate Prefecture becomes the largest in the country in at least five decades. Chinese architect Liu Jiakun is awarded the Pritzker Architecture Prize . The United States imposes—and later partially delays—tariffs on Canada and Mexico and increases tariffs on China , incurring retaliatory tariffs from Canada and China. Ongoing : M23 campaign Russian invasion of Ukraine timeline Sudanese civil war timeline Recent deaths : Sylvester Turner Khalil Fong Joey Molland Selwyn Raab Hazel Nell Dukes James Harrison Nominate an article March 10, 2025 ( 2025-03-10 ) (Monday) edit history watch Law and crime International Criminal Court investigation in the Philippines , Philippine drug war Former Philippine president Rodrigo Duterte says he will accept arrest if the International Criminal Court issues a warrant over his deadly war on drugs campaign . He is in Hong Kong to attend a campaign rally to address Filipino migrant workers ahead of the 2025 Senate elections . (Reuters) March 9, 2025 ( 2025-03-09 ) (Sunday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Syrian civil war Western Syria clashes 2025 massacres of Syrian Alawites , March 2025 Western Syria clashes Over 1,300 Syrians are killed over the course of 72 hours amid ongoing clashes between the Syrian transitional government and pro-Assad forces . At least 973 Alawites , Christians , and civilians of other religious minorities are killed in reprisal massacres by alleged transitional government-associated armed forces. (NPR) (BBC) (SOHR) Gaza war Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip The Israeli military cuts off the electric power distribution supply for the Gaza Strip , affecting over 2 million Palestinians and causing a desalination plant that supplies drinking water to shut down. (AP) Russian invasion of Ukraine Military aid to Ukraine , France–Ukraine relations , France–Russia relations According to the French minister of the Armed Forces Sebastien Lecornu , France will use €195 million in interest from Russian assets to fund a military aid package to Ukraine . (Reuters) War against the Islamic State Kivu conflict Nine people are killed by Islamic State -aligned Allied Democratic Forces rebels in Lubero Territory , North Kivu , Democratic Republic of the Congo . (AP) Business and economy More than 40,000 passengers at the Hamburg Airport in Hamburg , Germany , are affected and flights are cancelled after a worker protest organized by the trade union ver.di . (CTV News) Disasters and accidents A Beechcraft Bonanza aircraft carrying five people crashes in a retirement community in Manheim Township , Pennsylvania , United States , shortly after taking off from Lancaster Airport . (CNN) ( LNP ) Law and crime Reactions to the 2024 pro-Palestinian protests on university campuses U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrest a Palestinian student who played a prominent role during pro-Palestinian protests at Columbia University and revoke his green card and student visa. (BBC News) The United States Secret Service shoots and arrests an armed man outside the White House in Washington, D.C. following a confrontation with law enforcement. (NBC News) Politics and elections 2025 Liberal Party of Canada leadership election Mark Carney wins a landslide victory in the 2025 Liberal Party leadership election, with 86.85% of the vote, becoming prime minister–designate of Canada , replacing outgoing prime minister Justin Trudeau . (CBC) 2025 Romanian presidential election Nationalist candidate Călin Georgescu , first-round winner in the 2024 election , is barred from running in the 2025 Romanian presidential election by the Central Electoral Bureau . (G4 Media) Sports In American football , Cleveland Browns defensive end Myles Garrett becomes the highest paid non- quarterback in the National Football League after agreeing to a deal with the Browns that totals his salary at $40 million per year. (ESPN) March 8, 2025 ( 2025-03-08 ) (Saturday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Syrian civil war Western Syria clashes 2025 massacres of Syrian Alawites , March 2025 Western Syria clashes The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reports that groups attributed to the Syrian Ministry of Defense have killed over 750 Alawite civilians across several massacres in western Syria . (SOHR) (CTV News) Gaza war Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip Three Palestinians are killed in Israeli attacks in the Gaza Strip , two by a drone strike in Rafah and one by gunfire in al-Tannour, Rafah Governorate , which violates the 2025 ceasefire . (Al Jazeera) Russian invasion of Ukraine Attacks on civilians in the Russian invasion of Ukraine A Russian ballistic missile strike on Dobropillia , Donetsk Oblast , Ukraine , kills at least eleven people and injures 37 others. (Reuters) A Russian Shahed drone strike on a business park in Bohodukhiv , Kharkiv Oblast , kills three people and wounds seven others. (Ukrinform) Somali Civil War 2025 Shabelle offensive Al Shabaab seizes the town of Cadale and some villages including Bushra Sheekh, Ceel Xarar and Xaruur, around 70 km (43 mi) of Mogadishu . Somali President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud asks Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed for help. Ethiopia sends ten thousand ENDF troops near the Ethiopia–Somalia border . ( Idil News ) Dozens of people are killed, including a senior police commander , as heavy fighting breaks out after Al-Shabaab fighters attack the Police Force . Al-Shabaab claims to have taken over new areas of Al-Kawthar and Boos-Hareeri in Middle Shabelle region, Hirshabelle State , Somalia . (Idil News) Business and economy Canada–China trade war China announces that it will implement 100% tariffs on several Canadian agricultural exports , including rapeseed and peas , and 25% tariffs on pork and aquacultural products will be implemented on March 20 in retaliation against earlier tariffs instituted by Canada on Chinese electric vehicles and metal exports . (AP) Disasters and accidents 2024–25 Australian region cyclone season Cyclone Alfred One person is confirmed killed and thirteen others are injured in floods caused by Cyclone Alfred as it passes through Queensland and New South Wales , Australia . (AP) Law and crime Eight people are injured, including two critically, in a vehicle-ramming attack at a CarMax car dealership in Inglewood , California , United States . (NBC News) Sports FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 2025 Two ski jumpers from the Norwegian ski jumping team, Marius Lindvik and Johann André Forfang , are disqualified for cheating and Lindvik loses the silver in the men's individual normal hill in Granåsen , Trondheim . ( Kronen Zeitung ) March 7, 2025 ( 2025-03-07 ) (Friday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Syrian civil war Western Syria clashes 2025 massacres of Syrian Alawites , March 2025 Western Syria clashes A Syrian war monitor reports that Syrian security forces executed 52 Alawite men in Latakia province after clashes broke out the day prior against the new Syrian regime . (AFP via Al Arabiya) (AP) Islamic State insurgency in Puntland Puntland counter-terrorism operations , American military intervention in Puntland The United States Army stationed in Puntland maintains its operations and will not pull out of the region in response to double ongoing operations in the fight against ISIS in Puntland's Bari Region . (Garowe Online) Russian invasion of Ukraine Russian strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure Russia launches an overnight missile and drone attack across Ukraine , damaging energy and gas infrastructure. Ukraine says that it shot down 34 of 67 missiles and 100 of 194 drones. (Reuters) Ukraine deploys its Dassault Mirage 2000 jets against Russian forces for the first time, with the jets intercepting several Russian cruise missiles with air-to-air missiles . (BBC News) (Politico) South Sudanese Civil War 2025 Nasir clashes A UNMISS helicopter operator and approximently 27 South Sudanese soldiers are killed after being fired on by a local militia group while evacuating Nasir , South Sudan . (Reuters) Somali Civil War Al Shabaab militants carry out several attacks in Middle Shabelle , Hiiraan regions of Hirshabelle and Lower Shabelle region from South West State of Somalia . The group's main goal is to capture Mogadishu . (Mepa News) The Federal Government of Somalia bans most weapons and armored vehicles at Mogadishu Airport following U.S. warnings of Al-Shabaab threats to Mogadishu . (Garowe Online) Egyptair joins Qatar Airways and Turkish Airlines in suspending flights to Mogadishu's Aden Adde airport following a U.S. warning about a potential imminent terrorist attack on the airport. (Mustaqbal Media) War on drugs in Ecuador At least 22 people are killed after rival factions of the Los Tiguerones drug trafficking syndicate shoot at each other in Guyaquil , Ecuador . (Al Jazeera) Business and economy Hudson's Bay , Canada 's oldest department store , files for creditor protection and intends to restructure . (CBC News) Disasters and accidents All trains running through the Gare du Nord railway station in Paris , France , including Eurostar trains from London and Brussels , are canceled due to the discovery of a World War II -era unexploded ordnance containing 200 kg (440 lb) of explosives near the rail tracks near the station. ( The Independent ) (DW) At least ten people are killed in floods caused by heavy rain in Bahía Blanca , Buenos Aires Province , Argentina . (Reuters) Health and environment Stand Up for Science 2025 Organized demonstrations and walkouts of scientists take place across 30 cities in the United States and France in protest of the Donald Trump administration 's grant budget and employment cuts to several government scientific agencies. (AP) International relations Canada–Philippines relations Canada and the Philippines conclude negotiations on a visiting forces agreement . (Reuters) Law and crime 2025 United States federal mass layoffs The Native American Rights Fund , on behalf of five Indigenous American students and three tribes, the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes , the Prairie Band Potawatomi Nation , and the Pueblo of Isleta , file a lawsuit against the United States Department of the Interior and the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) for alleged wrongful dismissals of BIE schoolteachers. (AP) Arrest of Yoon Suk Yeol The Seoul Central District Court lifts the arrest warrant for South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol after his initial detention period expired. (DW) Capital punishment in the United States Convicted murderer Brad Sigmon is executed by firing squad at Broad River Correctional Institution in South Carolina , United States. He is the first inmate to be executed via firing squad since June 2010. (Sky News) Proposed secession of Republika Srpska Bosnian Serb police begin removing state police from their posts in Banja Luka , Bosnia and Herzegovina , in a move aimed at implementing separatist legislation signed into law by Republika Srpska leader Milorad Dodik . (Reuters) Twelve people are injured in a mass shooting at a pub in Toronto , Canada . Three suspects are at large. (BBC News) March 6, 2025 ( 2025-03-06 ) (Thursday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Syrian civil war Western Syria clashes March 2025 Western Syria clashes At least 16 members of the security forces and 28 Assad loyalists are killed in a series of ambushes and shootouts in Latakia Governorate , Syria . (Al Arabiya) (France 24) Four smuggling suspects are killed in clashes between Jordanian border forces and armed groups attempting to cross from Syria . ( The New Arab ) Save the Children says that landmines and unexploded ordnance in Syria have killed or injured at least 188 children since the overthrow of President Bashar al-Assad in December 2024. (Al Arabiya) Russo-Ukrainian war Military aid to Ukraine during the Russo-Ukrainian war Dutch Prime Minister Dick Schoof announces US$ 3.8 billion in national military funding for Ukraine in 2026, including $700 million in Dutch drone manufacturing. Norwegian and Polish leaders also announce increases in military aid for Ukraine. (ABC News) Rohingya genocide The United Nations World Food Programme announces that it will reduce the emergency food rations for Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh from US$12.50 to $6 per person. (Al Jazeera) Somali civil war Turkish Airlines and Qatar Airways temporarily suspend flights to Aden Adde International Airport in Mogadishu , Somalia , following security warnings from the United States embassy about potential terrorist attacks targeting the airport. (AeroTime) (Hiiraan Online) Business and economy Second Trump tariffs 2025 United States trade war with Canada and Mexico Following phone calls between United States President Donald Trump , Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum , and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau , Trump announces a pause on some tariffs on both Canada and Mexico until April 2. Sheinbaum states that Mexico will collaborate with the United States on migration and security issues, including controlling cross-border fentanyl smuggling. (ABC News) (DW) (CBC) 2020s European re-armament Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez announces that Spain will accelerate defense spending to 2% of its GDP in four years. ( El Mundo ) U.S. President Donald Trump signs an executive order creating a Strategic Bitcoin Reserve funded exclusively with bitcoin seized in criminal and civil forfeiture cases. (CNBC) Disasters and accidents 2025 Pocheon bombing Two South Korean Air Force KF-16 jets erroneously release eight MK82 bombs over home territory in Pocheon , Gyeonggi Province , striking a residential area and multiple homes, injuring at least 15 people, four of them seriously. (Reuters) At least two people are killed and 186 others are missing after four boats carrying African migrants heading towards the Arab Gulf states capsize off the coast of Yemen and Djibouti . Two Yemeni crew members are rescued by the International Organization for Migration . (Al Jazeera) Health and environment According to a report in the academic journal Science , the population of the 554 recorded species of butterflies in the U.S. have declined by 22% since 2000. (NPR) International relations France–Ukraine relations French defense Minister Sebastien Lecornu says France will continue sharing military intelligence to Ukraine regarding the Russian invasion . (AP) The United States withdraws from the Just Energy Transition Partnership , a program that helps emerging countries transition away from non-renewable energy sources like fossil fuels . (DW) (Reuters) Law and crime Sudanese civil war The government of Sudan files a lawsuit in the International Court of Justice against the United Arab Emirates for its alleged support of the Rapid Support Forces and its complicity in genocide against the Masalit people in Darfur , Sudan . The UAE denies its involvement in Sudan and calls the lawsuit a " publicity stunt ". (Middle East Eye) (Al Jazeera) The European Court of Justice fines Germany € 34 million (US$36.7 million) for failing to implement a European Union law to protect whistleblowers by 2021. The Court also fines Czechia € 2.3 million, Hungary € 1.5 million, and Luxembourg and Estonia € 500,000 each for the same reason. (DW) Six individuals, including retired general and far-right politician Radu Theodoru , are arrested on accusations of being involved in a Russian -backed coup d'état plot in Romania . ( The Financial Times ) (Politico) Science and technology 2025 in spaceflight Starship flight test 8 SpaceX launches its eighth test flight of the Starship launch vehicle from Starbase in Texas , United States . The first stage was caught by the launch tower despite Raptor engine failures during landing, but the second stage failed during its burn, mirroring the last flight test in January. (Reuters) Intuitive Machines ' space probe IM-2 Athena lands on Mons Mouton near the lunar south pole after launching from Kennedy Space Center in Florida , U.S., on February 27. (BBC News) An Ariane 6 rocket launches French military satellite CSO-3 from Guiana Space Centre in French Guiana . It is the first commercial launch of the Ariane 6 expendable launch system . (AP) March 5, 2025 ( 2025-03-05 ) (Wednesday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Russian invasion of Ukraine Kryvyi Rih strikes A Russian missile strikes a hotel in Kryvyi Rih , Ukraine, killing four people and injuring seven others. (Reuters) United States and the Russian invasion of Ukraine U.S. Central Intelligence Agency director John Ratcliffe announces that the United States has suspended intelligence sharing with Ukraine . (Al Jazeera) Gaza war 2025 Gaza war ceasefire The United States begins direct negotiations with Hamas over the release of the remaining Israeli hostages . President of the United States Donald Trump later threatens on Truth Social and X that the people of Gaza "are dead" unless they return the hostages "immediately". (Sky News) (Al Jazeera) (NBC News) South Sudanese Civil War 2025 Nasir clashes Security forces in South Sudan arrest Puot Kang Chol , a senior member of the parliamentary opposition , minister of petroleum and mining , and army general, as well as multiple other opposition-aligned military officers. South Sudanese soldiers also surround vice president Riek Machar 's house overnight before later withdrawing. (Reuters) (BBC News) Islamic State insurgency in the North Caucasus Russia 's Federal Security Service says that it killed four Islamic State militants in Dagestan during a counterterrorism operation. (Reuters) Business and economy Second Trump tariffs 2025 United States trade war with Canada and Mexico United States president Donald Trump announces a one-month temporary reprieve from tariffs for American automakers after receiving complaints from the Big Three : Ford , General Motors , and Stellantis . (NPR) 2025 United States federal mass layoffs The United States Department of Veteran Affairs announces it will lay off over 80,000 jobs to comply with the Trump administration 's plans under the Department of Government Efficiency . (AP) Disasters and accidents 2024–25 Australian region cyclone season Tropical Cyclone Alfred Queensland Premier David Crisafulli announces  the suspension of public transport services and the closure of 640 schools in South East Queensland , Australia , as Cyclone Alfred is expected to make landfall early Friday morning local time . (ABC News Australia) 2025 Chugach Mountains avalanche Three skiers are suspected to be killed after an avalanche trapped them under more than 30 feet of snow in the Chugach Mountains , Alaska , United States . (CTV News) (USA Today) One person is killed and sixteen others are injured when a bridge collapses on the E42 highway in La Louvière , Hainaut Province , Belgium . (Reuters) (RTBF) International relations Somalia–United States relations The U.S. Embassy in Mogadishu warns of imminent attack threats in Somalia , including at Aden Adde International Airport . Embassy personnel movements are suspended. (ABC News) Somali military officials confirm that the Trump administration has halted all funding for Somalia's Danab Brigade special forces and cut billions in USAID grants to the country. (Hiiraan Online) Russia–United States relations The United States Department of Defense denies previous media reports that Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth had ordered a halt to offensive cyber operations and information operations against Russia by U.S. Cyber Command . ( The Hill ) Law and crime 2025 California wildfires January 2025 Southern California wildfires In the U.S., Los Angeles County files a lawsuit against Southern California Edison , the electric utility company servicing most of Southern California , and alleges that the company's power system started the Eaton Fire , seeking to recover costs and damages sustained from the fire that damaged over 9,400 buildings and killed 17 people. (AP) Mexican drug war Mexican law enforcement announces they have seized 275,000 pills of fentanyl stored in boxes of nopales in Sonora . A man is arrested in connection to the seizure. (AP) The U.S. Attorney's Office for the District Court of Vermont indicts and charges 25 Canadians for conspiracy to defraud elderly people in the United States out of US$21 million and charges five of those 25 with conspiracy to commit money laundering . (NPR) March 4, 2025 ( 2025-03-04 ) (Tuesday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Hezbollah–Israel conflict Israeli invasion of Lebanon An Israeli drone strike in Tyre , Lebanon , kills Haidar Hashem, the head of naval forces in Hezbollah 's Radwan Force . ( Times of Israel ) Russian invasion of Ukraine Attacks in Russia during the Russian invasion of Ukraine A Ukrainian drone strikes an oil pipeline in Rostov Oblast , Russia , setting the pipeline ablaze for several hours before being put out by firefighters . Russia also reports its air defence units repelled another drone attack near Novoshakhtinsk . (Reuters) 2024–present Serbian anti-corruption protests Serbian National Assembly brawl At least three Serbian lawmakers are injured after flares and smoke bombs were thrown into the National Assembly . Ana Brnabić , the President of the National Assembly , described the attack as terrorism . (CTV News) Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Militants belonging to a splinter group of the Pakistani Taliban storm a Pakistan Army compound in Bannu , Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Pakistan , after two suicide bombers blow themselves up at the entrance, killing 12 civilians and wounding 30 others after nearby buildings collapsed. Six gunmen are also killed in the shootout . (Al Jazeera) New People's Army rebellion A Philippine Air Force FA-50PH fighter jet is reported missing during an overnight combat operation against insurgents in Bukidnon , Philippines . A search and rescue operation to locate the missing pilots is launched with both later being confirmed dead. (Reuters) ( The Philippine Star ) Red Sea crisis The Houthis claim to have shot down an American MQ-9 UAV , stating that it was conducting "hostile missions" over Al Hudaydah . The U.S. Air Force later confirms a loss of contact with the drone. (Al Arabiya) Business and economy Second Trump tariffs 2025 United States trade war with Canada and Mexico U.S. President Donald Trump 's 25% tariffs on Mexican and Canadian imports to the United States take effect, while an existing 10% tariff on all Chinese imports rises to 20% amid an ongoing trade war . (AP) Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says that he will impose a reciprocal 25% tariff on American goods worth up to US$ 155 billion. (Canada.ca) China–United States trade war The Chinese Ministry of Finance announces 10–15% tariffs on a range of US food imports, set to start March 10. (Reuters) 2025 Donald Trump speech to a joint session of Congress U.S. President Donald Trump announces the creation of the Office of Shipbuilding , as means to compete with China in the maritime transport industry . ( The Wall Street Journal ) Disasters and accidents March 2025 North American blizzard A storm complex leaves over 400,000 people without power in the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex and brings severe weather to large portions of the Southern United States . ( The New York Times ) A light aircraft crashes into a garden in Plettenberg , North Rhine-Westphalia , Germany , killing the pilot on board. (DW) International relations Iran–Turkey relations Iran says Turkey 's criticism of its foreign policy could lead to worsening ties after Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan said Iran risks plunging the Middle East into "disorder". (Al Arabiya) Turkey summons Iran's chargés d'affaires in Ankara after Iran's foreign ministry summoned Turkey's ambassador. (Al Arabiya) Politics and elections 2025 Micronesian parliamentary election Citizens of the Federated States of Micronesia vote to elect ten of the fourteen members of Congress . ( Pacific Daily News ) Science and technology The roughly 3,500 km 2 iceberg A23a , the world's largest , runs aground in shallow waters off the coast of South Georgia in the Atlantic Ocean . (BBC News) Scientists from Colossal Biosciences create a new form of genetically modified woolly mice . ( The Guardian ) More March 2025 events... Time : 09:15 UTC | Day : 10 March ◀ March 2025 ▶ S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 More March 2025 events... Wikimedia portal About this page Report a dispute • News about Wikipedia Ongoing events Disasters Avian flu outbreak Haitian crisis United States opioid epidemic Economics Canadian economic crisis Chinese property sector crisis German economic crisis Moldovan energy crisis United Kingdom cost-of-living crisis United States–Canada–Mexico trade war Politics Argentina cryptocurrency scandal Georgian political crisis Somali constitutional crisis Venezuelan political crisis Protests and strikes Georgian post-election protests Gaza war protests Indonesian student protests Serbian anti-corruption protests Southeast European retail boycotts edit section Elections and referendums Recent February 23: Germany , Bundestag 26: Anguilla , House of Assembly March 0 1: Abkhazia , President (2nd) 0 2: Tajikistan , Assembly of Representatives 0 9: Algeria , Council of the Nation (indirect) Upcoming 11: Greenland , Inatsisartut 12: Switzerland , Federal Council (indirect) 12: Belize , House of Representatives 21: Curaçao , Parliament edit section Trials Ongoing Kosovo: 0 Specialist Chambers South Korea: 0 Yoon Suk Yeol ICC: 0 Ali Kushayb • Mahamat Said Abdel Kani edit section Sports Association football 2024–25 UEFA Champions League 2024–25 UEFA Europa League 2024–25 UEFA Conference League 2024–25 UEFA Women's Champions League 2024–25 Premier League 2024–25 Serie A 2024–25 La Liga 2024–25 Bundesliga 2024–25 Ligue 1 2025 Major League Soccer season Basketball 2024–25 NBA season 2024–25 EuroLeague 2024–25 NCAA Division I men's season 2024–25 NCAA Division I women's season International cricket 2023–25 ICC World Test Championship Golf 2025 PGA Tour 2025 LIV Golf League 2025 LPGA Tour Ice hockey 2024–25 NHL season 2024–25 PWHL season Motorsport 2025 MotoGP World Championship 2025 NASCAR Cup Series 2025 IndyCar Series Rugby union 2025 Six Nations Championship Tennis 2025 ATP Tour 2025 WTA Tour More details – current sports events edit section Recent deaths March 0 8: Athol Fugard 0 7: D'Wayne Wiggins 0 6: Brian James 0 5: Fred Stolle 0 4: Roy Ayers 0 3: Lincoln Díaz-Balart 0 2: George Lowe 0 1: Pat Ingoldsby 0 1: Joey Molland 0 1: Angie Stone 0 1: Jack Vettriano February 28: David Johansen 28: Joseph Wambaugh 27: Boris Spassky 26: Michelle Trachtenberg 25: Henry Kelly 25: Roberto Orci 24: Roberta Flack 23: Larry Dolan 23: Chris Jasper 23: Al Trautwig 21: Clint Hill 21: Lynne Marie Stewart 20: David Boren 20: Jerry Butler 20: Peter Jason c. 18 : Gene Hackman 18: Gerald Ridsdale 17: Rick Buckler 17: Paquita la del Barrio 17: James Harrison 16: Kim Sae-ron 15: George Armitage 15: Muhsin Hendricks 15: Jorge Nuno Pinto da Costa 13: Jim Guy Tucker 11: Margarita Forés 11: Moses Lim 10: Peter Tuiasosopo 0 9: Tom Robbins 0 8: Dick Jauron 0 8: Sam Nujoma 0 8: Gyalo Thondup 0 7: Dafydd Elis-Thomas 0 7: Tony Roberts edit section Ongoing conflicts Global War against the Islamic State Africa Cameroon Anglophone Crisis Central African Republic Civil war Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda Kivu conflict Ethiopia Amhara conflict Nigeria Boko Haram insurgency Sahel insurgency Mali War Burkina Faso Niger Somalia Civil war Sudan Civil war Americas Mexico Mexican drug war Asia−Pacific Afghanistan Islamic State–Taliban conflict Republican insurgency India Naxalite–Maoist insurgency Myanmar Civil war Pakistan Insurgency in Balochistan Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Philippines NPA rebellion Europe Russia and Ukraine Russian invasion of Ukraine Middle East Israel Gaza war Israeli invasion of Lebanon Syria Israeli invasion of Syria Turkey PKK insurgency Yemen Red Sea crisis See also – List of ongoing proxy wars edit section 2025 events and developments by topic Arts Animation ( Anime ) Architecture Comics Film ( Horror , Science fiction ) Literature ( Poetry ) Music ( Classical , Country , Hip hop , Jazz , Latin , Metal , Rock , UK , US , Korea ) Radio Television ( Australia , Canada , Ireland , UK , Scotland , US ) Video games Politics and government Elections International leaders Sovereign states Sovereign state leaders Territorial governors Science and technology Archaeology Biotechnology Computing Palaeontology Quantum computing and communication Senescence research Space/Astronomy Spaceflight Sustainable energy research Environment Climate change Weather ( Heat waves Tornadoes Wildfires ) Transportation Aviation Rail transport Transportation technology By place Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bangladesh The Bahamas Bahrain Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Comoros Congo DR Congo Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Eswatini Equatorial Guinea Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Liechtenstein Libya Lithuania Luxembourg Macau Madagascar Marshall Islands Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Nauru Namibia Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria North Korea North Macedonia Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino São Tomé and Príncipe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Somalia South Africa Solomon Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Establishments and disestablishments categories Establishments Disestablishments Works and introductions categories Works Introductions Works entering the public domain 2025 at Wikipedia's sister projects Media from Commons News from Wikinews Quotations from Wikiquote Texts from Wikisource Taxa from Wikispecies Discussions from Meta-Wiki ...more edit section v t e Current events by month 2025 January February March 2024 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2023 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2022 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2021 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2020 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2019 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2018 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2017 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2016 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2015 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2014 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2013 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2012 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2011 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2010 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2009 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2008 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2007 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2006 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2005 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2004 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2003 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2002 January February March April May June July August September October November December Portal:Current events Calendars Discover Wikipedia using portals List of all portals The arts portal Biography portal Current events portal Geography portal History portal Mathematics portal Science portal Society portal Technology portal Random portal WikiProject Portals Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events&oldid=1234748158 " Categories : All portals 2025 by day Current events portal 2025 Current events WikiProject Current events History portals Hidden categories: Wikipedia pages protected against vandalism Portals with triaged subpages from October 2020 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer Interlanguage link template existing link This page was last edited on 15 July 2024, at 23:17 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Portal : Current events 119 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Random
Arthur S. Lall - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Biography Toggle Biography subsection 1.1 Writing career 2 References Toggle the table of contents Arthur S. Lall 1 language Español Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Indian diplomat (1911–1998) Arthur S. Lall 4th Permanent Representative of India to the United Nations In office September 1954 – December 1958 Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru Preceded by Rajeshwar Dayal Succeeded by Chandra Shekhar Jha [ 1 ] Personal details Born 1911 ( 1911 ) Lahore , British India Died 13 September 1998 (1998-09-13) (aged 86–87) New York , US Alma mater University of Oxford Arthur Samuel Lall (1911 – 13 September 1998) was an Indian diplomat, writer, and anti-nuclear activist who served as a consul general of India and the 4th permanent representative of India to the United Nations from September 1954 to December 1958. He also represented the country at the Eighteen Nation Committee on Disarmament in 1962. [ 2 ] Best known for his role to involved the newly independent India in the International affairs , he also wrote several books on politics such as The UN and the Middle East crisis, 1967 and The Emergence of Modern India besides writing novels and poems. [ 3 ] Biography [ edit ] Lal was born in Lahore , British India into a Christian family. After the Indian subcontinent partitioned into two sovereign states , his family moved from Lahore, Pakistan to India. His brother John S. Lall was appointed dewan of the Kingdom of Sikkim . Lal obtained his education from the University of the Punjab , Lahore and the University of Oxford . Prior to his diplomatic career, he was a government official in New Delhi and the first trade commissioner of India in London. An opponent of the nuclear weapons and testing, he saw India's first nuclear test in May 1974. He was actively involved in the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks between the United States and the Soviet Union during his diplomatic career. [ 4 ] After retiring from the service, he moved to Manhattan where he taught international relations at the School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University . Writing career [ edit ] As a writer, he wrote several books, including poetry and novels . In 1967 he wrote two books such as the Modern International Negotiations: Principles and Practices and How China Negotiates . He wrote his last book The Emergence of Modern India in 1981. Besides writing on politics and the international relations, he also wrote fiction . He wrote a novel in 1956 titled The House at Adampur and Seasons of Jupiter in 1958. [ 5 ] References [ edit ] ^ "Welcome to Permanent Mission of India to the UN , New York" . Welcome to Permanent Mission of India to the UN , New York . 2015-07-15 . Retrieved 2021-12-03 . ^ Lall, Arthur S. (Arthur Samuel); Krasno, Jean E.; Haven, Yale University (New (1990-06-27). "Interview with Arthur Lall /" . United Nations Digital Library System (in Latin) . Retrieved 2021-12-03 . ^ "Interview with Arthur Samuel Lall by Jean Krasno" . DAG Repository . 1990-06-27 . Retrieved 2021-12-03 . ^ "Arthur Lall, 87, Indian Diplomat and Scholar" . The New York Times . 1998-09-21 . Retrieved 2021-12-03 . ^ "ARTHUR S. LALL, INDIAN DIPLOMAT IN 1950S, '60S" . Chicago Tribune . 1998-09-22 . Retrieved 2021-12-03 . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Arthur_S._Lall&oldid=1273882195 " Categories : 1911 births 1998 deaths University of the Punjab alumni Permanent representatives of India to the United Nations Columbia School of International and Public Affairs faculty Hidden categories: CS1 Latin-language sources (la) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata This page was last edited on 4 February 2025, at 11:14 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Arthur S. Lall 1 language Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About
Wikipedia:About - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Wikipedia : About 136 languages Afrikaans Alemannisch Алтай тил अंगिका Аԥсшәа العربية Aragonés অসমীয়া Asturianu Avañe'ẽ Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Banjar Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Bikol Central Български Boarisch བོད་ཡིག Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Chi-Chewa Cymraeg Dansk الدارجة Davvisámegiella Deutsch ދިވެހިބަސް Diné bizaad Ελληνικά Español Euskara فارسی Føroyskt Français Frysk Galego ГӀалгӀай 贛語 ગુજરાતી 𐌲𐌿𐍄𐌹𐍃𐌺 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Bahasa Hulontalo Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Ирон Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan कॉशुर / کٲشُر Қазақша Kiswahili Kurdî Кыргызча Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Magyar Македонски Malti Māori მარგალური مصرى مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Нохчийн Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk ꆇꉙ ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ ပအိုဝ်ႏဘာႏသာႏ ភាសាខ្មែរ Polski Português Qaraqalpaqsha Română Runa Simi Русский Саха тыла Sängö Scots Shqip සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina Словѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟ Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча / tatarça တႆး తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Türkmençe Tyap Удмурт Українська ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Tiếng Việt Walon Winaray Wolof 吴语 ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 Zazaki 中文 Edit links Project page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikimedia Foundation MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikidata Wikifunctions Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikivoyage Wiktionary Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Introduction to English language Wikipedia Shortcuts WP:ABT WP:ABOUT WP:WIKIPEDIA This is a general introduction for visitors to Wikipedia. For aspiring contributors, also see this guide and tutorial . For other uses, see Wikipedia:Wikipedia (disambiguation) . "Imagine a world in which every single person on the planet is given free access to the sum of all human knowledge. That's what we're doing." — Jimmy Wales Wikipedia is a free online encyclopedia that anyone can edit, and millions already have . Wikipedia's purpose is to benefit readers by presenting information on all branches of knowledge . Hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation , Wikipedia consists of freely editable content, with articles that usually contain numerous links guiding readers to more information. Written collaboratively by volunteers known as Wikipedians , Wikipedia articles can be edited by anyone with Internet access , except in limited cases in which editing is restricted to prevent disruption or vandalism . Since its creation on January 15, 2001 , it has grown into the world's largest reference website , attracting over a billion visitors each month . Wikipedia currently has more than sixty-four million articles in more than 300 languages , including 6,964,445 articles in English , with 126,071 active contributors in the past month. Wikipedia's fundamental principles are summarized in its five pillars . While the Wikipedia community has developed many policies and guidelines , new editors do not need to be familiar with them before they start contributing. Anyone can edit Wikipedia's text, data, references, and images. The quality of content is more important than the expertise of who contributes it. Wikipedia's content must conform with its policies , including being verifiable by published reliable sources . Contributions based on personal opinions , beliefs, or personal experiences, unreviewed research , libellous material, and copyright violations are not allowed, and will not remain. Wikipedia's software makes it easy to reverse errors, and experienced editors watch and patrol bad edits. Wikipedia differs from printed references in important ways . Anyone can instantly improve it, add quality information, remove misinformation, and fix errors and vandalism . Since Wikipedia is continually updated, encyclopedic articles on major news events appear within minutes. For over 24 years, editors have volunteered their time and talents to create history's most comprehensive encyclopedia while providing references and other resources to researchers worldwide (see Researching with Wikipedia ). In summary, Wikipedia has tested the wisdom of the crowd since 2001 and has found that it succeeds. To start editing, simply click the Edit or Edit source buttons or the pencil icon at the top of any non-protected page or section. v t e Basic information on Wikipedia - ( Search ) Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters : Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Open letters Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:About&oldid=1274387765 " Category : Wikipedia basic information Hidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages Wikipedia move-protected project pages This page was last edited on 7 February 2025, at 01:54 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Wikipedia : About 136 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us
Wikipedia:Contact us - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Wikipedia : Contact us 78 languages Alemannisch अंगिका العربية Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Banjar Basa Banyumasan भोजपुरी Български Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk الدارجة Davvisámegiella Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto فارسی Français 한국어 हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Jawa ქართული Кыргызча Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Magyar Malti Bahasa Melayu မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча پښتو Plattdüütsch Polski Português Română Русиньскый Русский Scots Shqip සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog Татарча / tatarça తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو Vèneto Tiếng Việt ייִדיש 粵語 中文 Edit links Project page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Meta-Wiki Wikibooks Wikinews Wikiquote Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Introduction Readers How to report a problem with an article, or find out more information. Article subjects Problems with articles about you, your company, or somebody you represent. Licensing How to copy Wikipedia's information, donate your own, or report unlicensed use of your information. Donors Find out about the process, how to donate, and information about how your money is spent. Press and partnerships If you're a member of the press looking to contact Wikipedia, or have a business proposal for us. Back to main page Thank you for your interest in contacting Wikipedia. Before proceeding, some important disclaimers: Wikipedia has no central editorial board. Contributions are made by a large number of volunteers at their own discretion. Edits are neither the responsibility of the Wikimedia Foundation (the organisation that hosts the site) nor of its staff and edits will not generally be made in response to an email request. Although Wikipedia was founded by Jimmy Wales , he is not personally responsible for our content. If you have questions about the concept of Wikipedia rather than a specific problem, the About Wikipedia page may help. If you want to ask other users for help with editing or using Wikipedia, stop by the Teahouse , Wikipedia's live help channel , or the help desk to ask someone for assistance. If you disagree with an article's content, or are involved in a content dispute, see Dispute resolution . The links on the left should direct you to how to contact us or resolve problems. If you cannot find your issue listed there, you can email helpful, experienced volunteers at info-en wikimedia.org . Please refrain from emailing about disagreements with content; they will not be resolved via email. Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Contact_us&oldid=967537943 " Categories : Wikipedia tutorials Wikipedia quick introductions This page was last edited on 13 July 2020, at 20:45 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Wikipedia : Contact us 78 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Contents
Help:Contents - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Help : Contents 188 languages Acèh Afrikaans Alemannisch አማርኛ अंगिका Ænglisc العربية Aragonés ܐܪܡܝܐ Asturianu Avañe'ẽ Авар Aymar aru Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Banjar 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú Basa Banyumasan Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Bislama Boarisch བོད་ཡིག Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština Chavacano de Zamboanga Cymraeg Dansk الدارجة Davvisámegiella Deutsch Diné bizaad Dolnoserbski डोटेली ཇོང་ཁ Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Føroyskt Français Frysk Gaeilge Gàidhlig Galego ГӀалгӀай ગુજરાતી 客家語 / Hak-kâ-ngî 한국어 Hausa Հայերեն हिन्दी Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Bahasa Hulontalo Ido Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Interlingue Ирон Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa Kalaallisut ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული कॉशुर / کٲشُر Қазақша Kernowek Ikirundi Kiswahili Kreyòl ayisyen Kurdî Кыргызча Ladin Ladino ລາວ Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Li Niha Limburgs Lingála Lombard Magyar Македонски മലയാളം Malti Māori मराठी مصرى Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau 閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Mirandés Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands Nedersaksies नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Napulitano Нохчийн Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ပအိုဝ်ႏဘာႏသာႏ Papiamentu پښتو ភាសាខ្មែរ Piemontèis Plattdüütsch Polski Português Qırımtatarca Ripoarisch Română Rumantsch Runa Simi Русский Саха тыла संस्कृतम् Sardu Scots Seeltersk Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina Словѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟ Ślůnski Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча / tatarça တႆး తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Lea faka-Tonga Tsetsêhestâhese ತುಳು Türkçe Türkmençe Twi Тыва дыл Удмурт Basa Ugi Українська اردو ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Vèneto Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt Volapük Võro Walon West-Vlams 吴语 ייִדיש 粵語 Zazaki Žemaitėška 中文 Edit links Help page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikifunctions Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Main page of the help namespace This page provides help with the most common questions about Wikipedia . You can also search Wikipedia's help pages using the search box below, or browse the Help menu or the Help directory . Help Wikipedia Read or find an article The Readers' FAQ and our about page contain the most commonly sought information about Wikipedia. For simple searches, there is a search bar at the top of every page. Type what you are looking for in the box. Suggested matches will appear in a dropdown list. Select any page in the list to go to that page. Or, select the "Search" button, or press ↵ Enter , to go to a full search result. For advanced searches, see Help:Searching . There are other ways to browse and explore Wikipedia articles; many can be found at Wikipedia:Contents . See our disclaimer for cautions about Wikipedia's limitations. For mobile access , press the mobile view link at the very bottom of every desktop view page. Edit an article Contributing is easy: see how to edit a page . For a quick summary on participating, see contributing to Wikipedia , and for a friendly tutorial, see our introduction . For a listing of introductions and tutorials by topic, see getting started . The Simplified Manual of Style and Cheatsheet can remind you of basic wiki markup . Be bold in improving articles! When adding facts, please provide references so others may verify them. If you are affiliated with the article subject, please see our conflict of interest guideline . The simple guide to vandalism cleanup can help you undo malicious edits. If you're looking for places you can help out, the Task Center is the place to go, or check out what else is happening at the community portal . You can practice editing and experiment in a sandbox your sandbox . Report a problem with an article If there is a problem with an article about yourself, a family member, a friend or a colleague, please read Biographies of living persons/Help . If you spot a problem with an article, you can fix it directly, by clicking on the "Edit" link at the top of that page. See the "edit an article" section of this page for more information. If you don't feel ready to fix the article yourself, post a message on the article's talk page . This will bring the matter to the attention of others who work on that article. There is a "Talk" link at the beginning of every article page. You can contact us . If it's an article about you or your organization, see Contact us – Subjects . Create a new article or upload media Check Your first article to see if your topic is appropriate, then the Article wizard will walk you through creating the article. Once you have created an article, see Writing better articles for guidance on how to improve it and what to include (like reference citations ). For contributing images, audio or video files, see the Introduction to uploading images . Then the Upload wizard will guide you through that process. Stuck? Answers to common problems can be found at frequently asked questions . Or check out where to ask questions or make comments . New users should seek help at the Teahouse if they're having problems while editing Wikipedia. More complex questions can be posed at the Help desk . Volunteers will respond as soon as they're able. Or ask for help on your talk page and a volunteer will visit you there! You can get live help with editing in the help chatroom . For help with technical issues, ask at the Village pump . Factual questions If searching Wikipedia has not answered your question ( for example, questions like "Which country has the world's largest fishing fleet?" ), try the Reference Desk . Volunteers there will attempt to answer your questions on any topic, or point you toward the information you need. Directories Directory : main list of directories and indexes. Help related Help directory : for informative, instructional and consultation pages. Request directory : for services and assistance that can be requested on Wikipedia. Protocols and conventions Policy directory : official policies for "English Wikipedia". Guideline directory : official guidelines for "English Wikipedia". Manual of Style directory : pages related to the style manual of Wikipedia articles. Community related Departments : for the different divisions of Wikipedia. Editor's index : for everything an editor needs to know to work on Wikipedia. Essay directory : for Wikipedia namespace essays. Dashboard : for current discussions taking place throughout Wikipedia. WikiProjects : for people who want to work together as a team to improve Wikipedia. MediaWiki software Wikitext : for the syntax used by Wikipedia to format a page. HTML : for HTML5 elements, or tags and their attribute. Templates : for templates used within Wikipedia. Help by topic Help Menu : for searching by subject matter. Navigating Wikipedia : for searching and browsing the encyclopedia. Joining Wikipedia : how to get involved. Editing Wikipedia : has general help for editors. Links and references : has help for creating links, or dealing with references Images and media : how to use images, videos and sound files. Keeping track of changes : how to track the evolution of a page, or follow a user. Policies and guidelines : for community standards. Asking questions : volunteers will attempt to answer. The Wikipedia community : how to submit or debate a proposal. Resources and lists : has resources for editors. Account settings : has tips and tools for registered users. Technical information : has tools for advanced users, and troubleshooting. Site map : is the above thirteen pages on one single page. Tip of the day Becoming an Administrator Administrators , commonly known as admins or sysops ( system operators ), are Wikipedia editors who have been granted the technical ability to perform certain special actions on the English Wikipedia, including the ability to block and unblock user accounts and IP addresses from editing, edit fully protected pages, protect and unprotect pages from editing, delete and undelete pages, rename pages without restriction, and use certain other tools . They are never required to use their tools, and must never use them to gain an advantage in a dispute in which they are involved. Admins are selected by the Wikipedia community at Wikipedia:Requests for adminship through an often grueling review process. Go there if you would like to nominate someone to be an admin (including yourself). Prior tip – Tips library – Next tip Read more: Wikipedia:New admin Become a Wikipedia tipster – Tips library, by subject To add this auto-updating daily tip to your user page, use {{ totd }} Additional searches Search Frequently Asked Questions Search the help desk archives v t e Basic information on Wikipedia - ( Search ) Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters : Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Open letters Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips Shortcuts to this page: WP:HELP WP:H Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Help:Contents&oldid=1279552349 " Categories : Help Wikipedia help contents Hidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages Wikipedia move-protected project pages This page was last edited on 9 March 2025, at 05:58 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Help : Contents 188 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Introduction
Help:Introduction - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Help : Introduction 116 languages Afrikaans Alemannisch Ænglisc Аԥсшәа العربية Arpetan অসমীয়া Авар تۆرکجه Basa Bali বাংলা 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú Basa Banyumasan Башҡортса Български Boarisch Bosanski Буряад Català Cebuano Čeština Cymraeg Davvisámegiella Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Føroyskt Français Gaeilge Gaelg Gàidhlig Galego 한국어 Հայերեն Hrvatski Bahasa Hulontalo Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa Kapampangan Къарачай-малкъар ქართული कॉशुर / کٲشُر Қазақша Kreyòl ayisyen Kurdî Кыргызча Ladin Ladino ລາວ Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Limburgs Magyar मैथिली Македонски മലയാളം Malti مصرى Bahasa Melayu ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ 日本語 Napulitano Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk ਪੰਜਾਬੀ ပအိုဝ်ႏဘာႏသာႏ پښتو ភាសាខ្មែរ Plattdüütsch Polski Română Romani čhib Runa Simi Русский संस्कृतम् Sardu Scots Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina کوردی Српски / srpski Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog Tarandíne Татарча / tatarça တႆး తెలుగు ไทย Türkçe Удмурт Українська اردو ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Vahcuengh Tiếng Việt ייִדיש 中文 ᥖᥭᥰ ᥖᥬᥲ ᥑᥨᥒᥰ Edit links Help page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Multilingual Wikisource Wikifunctions Wikisource Wikiversity Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Tutorial for new editors Introduction to Wikipedia Wikipedia is made by people like you . This page takes you through a set of tutorials aimed at complete newcomers interested in contributing. It covers all the basics, and each tutorial takes only a few minutes, so you can become a proficient Wikipedian in no time! Get started Policies and Guidelines The wiki markup source editor shows the underlying page source code. It works like a plain text file, indicating links and other items using simple code like this: [[Earth]] . Editing Referencing Images Tables VisualEditor is the easier way of editing that works more like a word processor and hides the underlying source code. Links and other items are edited using toolbar and pop-up interfaces. Editing Referencing Images Tables Talk pages Navigating Wikipedia Manual of Style Conclusion View all as single page Help Wikipedia Shortcuts WP:I H:I H:INTRO For more training information, see also: Full help contents page Training for students A single-page guide to contributing A training adventure game Resources for new editors Please consider leaving us some feedback. Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Help:Introduction&oldid=1231232147 " Category : Wikipedia quick introductions Hidden category: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages This page was last edited on 27 June 2024, at 06:05 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Help : Introduction 116 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal
Wikipedia:Community portal - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Wikipedia : Community portal 216 languages Адыгабзэ Afrikaans Alemannisch Алтай тил अंगिका Ænglisc العربية Aragonés Armãneashti অসমীয়া Asturianu Atikamekw Avañe'ẽ Авар Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه Basa Bali বাংলা Banjar 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú Basa Banyumasan Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Български Boarisch Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Чӑвашла Čeština Chamoru Chavacano de Zamboanga Chi-Chewa ChiTumbuka Chahta anumpa Cymraeg Dansk الدارجة Davvisámegiella Deitsch Deutsch ދިވެހިބަސް ཇོང་ཁ Ebon Eesti Ελληνικά Эрзянь Español Esperanto Estremeñu Euskara فارسی Føroyskt Français Frysk Furlan Gaeilge Gaelg Gàidhlig Galego ГӀалгӀай 贛語 ગુજરાતી 客家語 / Hak-kâ-ngî Хальмг 한국어 Hausa हिन्दी Hiri Motu Bahasa Hulontalo Ido Igbo Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Interlingue Iñupiatun IsiXhosa Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa Kalaallisut ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული Kaszëbsczi Қазақша Kernowek Ikinyarwanda Коми Kongo Kurdî Ladino Лакку ລາວ Latina Lëtzebuergesch Лезги Lietuvių Li Niha Ligure Lingua Franca Nova Livvinkarjala Lombard Magyar Madhurâ Македонски Malagasy മലയാളം Māori मराठी ဘာသာမန် Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau Mirandés Мокшень မြန်မာဘာသာ Dorerin Naoero Na Vosa Vakaviti Nederlands Nedersaksies नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Napulitano Нохчийн Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk ꆇꉙ Occitan Олык марий ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oshiwambo Otsiherero Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча Pälzisch Pangasinan Pangcah پښتو Patois ភាសាខ្មែរ Piemontèis Pinayuanan Plattdüütsch Polski Português Qafár af Qaraqalpaqsha Ripoarisch Română Runa Simi Русиньскый Русский Саха тыла Sakizaya Sängö ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ Sardu Scots Seeltersk Setswana Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Tarandíne Татарча / tatarça တႆး తెలుగు ไทย ትግርኛ Тоҷикӣ Tshivenda ತುಳು Türkçe Türkmençe Tyap Тыва дыл Удмурт Basa Ugi Українська اردو Vahcuengh Vèneto Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt Volapük 文言 West-Vlams Winaray 吴语 Xitsonga ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 Zazaki Žemaitėška 中文 Betawi Ghanaian Pidgin Yerwa Kanuri ꠍꠤꠟꠐꠤ Tolışi Edit links Project page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikifunctions Wikimania Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Collaborations, tasks and news about English Wikipedia Community portal Dashboard Departments Maintenance Tasks Discord IRC Meetups Directories ( Policies/Guidelines Essays How-to Index Noticeboards WikiProjects ) Welcome to the community portal! Shortcuts P:WP WP:COM This page provides a listing of current collaborations, tasks, and news about English Wikipedia. New to Wikipedia ? See the contributing to Wikipedia page or our tutorial for everything you need to know to get started. For a listing of internal project pages of interest, see the department directory . Interact more For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the Dashboard . Help desk Ask questions about how to use or edit Wikipedia The Teahouse Friendly help for newcomers Reference desk Ask research questions about any topic except Wikipedia itself WikiProjects Work with other editors on a shared area of interest Dispute resolution Get help resolving disputes Village pump sections ( view all ) Policy Discuss existing and proposed policies Technical Discuss technical issues about Wikipedia Proposals Discuss new proposals that are not policy-related Idea lab Incubate new ideas before formally proposing them WMF Discuss issues involving the Wikimedia Foundation Miscellaneous Post messages that do not fit into any other category Community bulletin board This section is transcluded from Wikipedia:Community bulletin board . ( edit | history ) How to add to the community bulletin board The community bulletin board has 2 sections that can be used by Wikipedians for announcements: "Events and projects" and "WikiProject notices". In general, keep it concise (under 2 lines), refrain from fancy formatting , and new entries should be placed at the top of their section. Before editing, make sure you are on Wikipedia:Community bulletin board , not Wikipedia:Community portal , where the board is transcluded. Events and projects : In this section, only organized events, projects, and/or competitions should be listed. These are organized by how often they occur: The Yearly section is for uncommon events, like events that only occur every year, once, or irregularly. The Monthly section is for events that occur each month, or are always ongoing. WikiProject notices : In this section, any announcement, request for help or other notice from a WikiProject should be listed here. Entries should be signed, and ordered from newest to oldest. Entries are to be removed after a period of 6 months . Welcome to the community bulletin board , which is a page used for announcements from WikiProjects and other groups. Included here are coordinated efforts, events, projects, and other general announcements. Dashboard News Task Center Goings-on Meetups In the media Mailing lists Events and projects [add] Yearly or infrequent events Monthly or continuous events Monthly contest, WikiProject Military history . The contest department of the Military history WikiProject aims to motivate increased quality in military history articles by offering a form of friendly competition for project members making improvements to them. The primary contest available is a simple rolling competition that awards points for improving articles. The contest runs from the first to last day of each month. Guild of Copy Editors' editing drive. The March 2025 backlog drive is a one-month-long effort by the Guild of Copy Editors to reduce the backlog of articles that require copy editing: those carrying the {{ copy edit }} tag (also {{ awkward }} , {{ copy edit section }} , {{ inappropriate person }} , and {{ copy edit inline }} , and their redirects) or are listed on the GOCE Requests page . It began on 1 March, 00:00 (UTC), and will end on 31 March, 23:59 (UTC). Wikipedia:WikiProject Women in Red 2024 Events : Recently completed: Alphabet run: C & D Black women New this month: Alphabet run: E & F Artists+Activists Women of the Arab World Ongoing initiatives: Music #1day1woman Upcoming events: Ideas Meetups for March 2025 +/- Edmonton A+F Panel March 6, 2025 ( 2025-03-06 ) London 214 March 9, 2025 ( 2025-03-09 ) San Diego 119 March 10, 2025 ( 2025-03-10 ) Brighton 4 March 15, 2025 ( 2025-03-15 ) Chicago March 2025 March 15, 2025 ( 2025-03-15 ) Oxford 109 March 16, 2025 ( 2025-03-16 ) Seattle March 18, 2025 ( 2025-03-18 ) Edinburgh 20 March 29, 2025 ( 2025-03-29 ) Los Angeles March 29, 2025 ( 2025-03-29 ) Brixton 7 March 31, 2025 ( 2025-03-31 ) Meetups for April 2025 +/- Minnesota April 6, 2025 ( 2025-04-06 ) London 215 April 13, 2025 ( 2025-04-13 ) Seattle April 22, 2025 ( 2025-04-22 ) WikiProject notices [add] Also consider posting WikiProject, Task Force, and Collaboration news at The Signpost ' s WikiProject Report page. Please include your signature when adding a listing here. WikiProject Outlines news: New outlines: Outline of Augustus Outline of Leeds Outline of Glasgow The following outline covers an ongoing situation, please help keep it updated: Outline of the Russo-Ukrainian War The Outline of the week is Outline of the Solar System . Please help improve them. — The Transhumanist 18:16, 15 February 2025 (UTC) We're trying to revive Wikipedia:WikiProject Geocaching ! If you're a Geocacher and want to improve the quality of the Geocaching related articles, sign up now! Lord serious pig 20:12, 1 August 2024 (UTC) We are looking to revive Task Force Philippine History and are looking for interested editors! Sign-up now! NyanThousand ( talk ) 15:45, 28 July 2024 (UTC) WP Unreferenced articles is trying to clear the decades-long backlog of unreferenced articles . The backlog recently reached under 90,000 . Come contribute! — PerfectSoundWhatever ( t ; c ) 17:04, 4 July 2024 (UTC) Technical news This section is transcluded from Wikipedia:Tech news . ( edit | history ) Latest tech news from the Wikimedia technical community. Please tell other users about these changes. Not all changes will affect you. Translations are available. Updates for editors All logged-in editors using the mobile view can now edit a full page. The "Edit full page" link is accessible from the "More" menu in the toolbar. This was previously only available to editors using the Advanced mobile contributions setting. [1] Interface administrators can now help to remove the deprecated Cite CSS code matching " mw-ref " from their local MediaWiki:Common.css . The list of wikis in need of cleanup, and the code to remove, can be found with this global search and in this example , and you can learn more about how to help on the CSS migration project page . The Cite footnote markers (" [1] ") are now rendered by Parsoid , and the deprecated CSS is no longer needed. The CSS for backlinks (" mw:referencedBy ") should remain in place for now. This cleanup is expected to cause no visible changes for readers. Please help to remove this code before March 20, after which the development team will do it for you. When editors embed a file (e.g. [[File:MediaWiki.png]] ) on a page that is protected with cascading protection, the software will no longer restrict edits to the file description page, only to new file uploads. [2] In contrast, transcluding a file description page (e.g. {{:File:MediaWiki.png}} ) will now restrict edits to the page. [3] When editors revert a file to an earlier version it will now require the same permissions as ordinarily uploading a new version of the file. The software now checks for 'reupload' or 'reupload-own' rights, [4] and respects cascading protection. [5] When administrators are listing pages for deletion with the Nuke tool, they can now also list associated talk pages and redirects for deletion, alongside pages created by the target, rather than needing to manually delete these pages afterwards. [6] The previously noted update to Single User Login, which will accommodate browser restrictions on cross-domain cookies by moving login and account creation to a central domain, will now roll out to all users during March and April. The team plans to enable it for all new account creation on Group0 wikis this week. See the SUL3 project page for more details and an updated timeline. Since last week there has been a bug that shows some interface icons as black squares until the page has fully loaded. It will be fixed this week. [7] One new wiki has been created: a Wikipedia in Sylheti ( w:syl: ) [8] View all 23 community-submitted tasks that were resolved last week . For example, a bug was fixed with loading images in very old versions of the Firefox browser on mobile. [9] Updates for technical contributors Detailed code updates later this week: MediaWiki Tech news prepared by Tech News writers and posted by bot • Contribute • Translate • Get help • Give feedback • Subscribe or unsubscribe . Requests for comment Discussions in the following areas have requested wider attention via Requests for comment : Biographies Economy and trade History and geography Language and linguistics Media, the arts, and architecture Politics, government, and law Religion and philosophy Science and mathematics Society, sports, and culture Wikipedia policies and guidelines Wikipedia style and naming WikiProjects and collaborations Wikipedia technical issues and templates Wikipedia proposals Unsorted General notices Banning AI-generated images in articles Future administrator elections 27 February 2025 News and notes: Administrator elections up for reapproval and 1bil GET snagged on Commons Serendipity: Guinea-Bissau Heritage from Commons to the World Technology report: Hear that? The wikis go silent twice a year In the media: The end of the world Recent research: What's known about how readers navigate Wikipedia; Italian Wikipedia hardest to read Opinion: Sennecaster's RfA debriefing Tips and tricks: One year after this article is posted, will every single article on Wikipedia have a short description? Community view: Open letter from French Wikipedians says "no" to intimidation of volunteer contributors Traffic report: Temporary scars, February stars Essay: The source, the whole source, and nothing but the source Obituary: Ümüt Çınar (Kmoksy) and Vinícius Medina Kern (Vmkern) Single page Front page About Subscribe Suggestions Archives Help out You can help improve the articles listed below! This list updates frequently, so check back here for more tasks to try. (See Wikipedia:Maintenance or the Task Center for further information.) Fix spelling and grammar None More... • Learn how Fix wikilinks Crowns of Egypt Camp Horseshoe for Boys More... • Learn how Update with new information Left (Austria) Tidal stream generator Seafest Euro gold and silver commemorative coins (Slovenia) Search engine More... • Learn how Expand short articles Rubokht Kalateh-ye Mohammad Soltan Kahshang Rural District Golunak Zeyni More... • Learn how Check and add references Abeokuta 2024 in aviation Timeline of Romanian history BE-4 Liebeck v. McDonald's Restaurants More... • Learn how Fix original research issues Yumuktepe Octave effect Chicago White Sox Gomantak Maratha Samaj De la Peña More... • Learn how Improve lead sections Seed ball Thomas P. Doyle Eukaryotic transcription Chemical affinity Civil partnership in the United Kingdom More... • Learn how Add an image O'Dell House Museum Ordu Nefise Akçelik Tunnel Otanomomo Ortman key Old Oyo National Park More... • Learn how Translate and clean up Soviet submarine tender Magadansky Komsomolets Power spot (spirituality) Great Fire of Angen Inmarko Rastrelli Cello Quartet More... • Learn how Help counter systemic bias by creating new articles on important women . Help improve popular pages , especially those of low quality . This section is transcluded from Wikipedia:Community portal/Open tasks . ( edit | history ) This week's article for improvement is: Rake (tool) Previous selections: Kerosene · Jewish deli · Family cookbooks This week's backlog of the week is: Category:Wikipedia requested captions Things to review Copyvios New pages New files Recent edits New editors IP edits Discussions Newest featured content Articles Pari Khan Khanum Black Widow (Natasha Romanova) Mandell Creighton For Your Eyes Only (short story collection) Christmas Tree Farm Virtual Self (EP) Kim Kitsuragi Dracula The River (Bruce Springsteen album) Margaret Sibella Brown IMac G4 Edward III's Breton campaign The Legend of Dragoon Thunderball (novel) Fall of George Plantagenet, Duke of Clarence Topics Green Bay Packers players History of the National Hockey League Peter Capaldi Detroit Lions draft history Jake Gyllenhaal Green Bay Packers draft history Overview of Rachelle Ann Go Bruno Mars Overview of Ben&Ben Primates 30 (album) Jupiter Overview of Angeline Quinto Meghan Trainor's Billboard Hot 100 entries Overview of Kyla Lists World Heritage Sites in Mongolia International Cricket Council members Ithaca discography European Figure Skating Championships Bini discography Awards and nominations received by Michelle Keegan World Women's Billiards Championship Michelin-starred restaurants in Turkey 57th Academy Awards Hot Adult Contemporary number ones of 1986 Awards and nominations received by Raye Ukrainian Figure Skating Championships Municipalities in Washington 1952 Summer Olympics medal table 1936 Winter Olympics medal table Pictures Daguerrotypist Richard Serra Teresa Brambilla Lord Babberley crossdressing as the fake Charley's Aunt Adams Synchronological Chart or Map of History Weka Pardachirus marmoratus El Escorial Martin Luther King Jr. is welcomed with a kiss from his wife Charles Roscoe Savage Gulf of Tonkin Resolution Chromodoris annae Broad-billed motmot Arthur Tedder, 1st Baron Tedder The US Navy ferries troops across the Rhine Tip of the day Tip of the day... Where to post requests Requests for administrator assistance: Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard Wikipedia:Requests for adminship Wikipedia:Arbitration/Requests Wikipedia:Requested articles Wikipedia:Requests for adminship#Current nominations for bureaucratship Wikipedia:Requests for comment Wikipedia:Requests for de-adminship Requests for help: Wikipedia:Help desk Wikipedia:Requests for mediation Wikipedia:Requested moves Wikipedia:Requests for page protection Wikipedia:Requested pictures Requests for research assistance: Wikipedia:Reference desk Wikipedia:Requested recordings Prior tip – Tips library – Next tip Read more: Wikipedia:Department directory Become a Wikipedia tipster To add this auto-updating template to your user page, use {{ totd }} Wikipedia:Community portal at Wikipedia's sister projects : Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Commons News from Wikinews Quotations from Wikiquote Texts from Wikisource Textbooks from Wikibooks Resources from Wikiversity Travel guides from Wikivoyage Taxa from Wikispecies Data from Wikidata v t e Basic information on Wikipedia - ( Search ) Help directory menu Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) About Wikipedia Readers' index to Wikipedia Statistics Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship In brief General disclaimer Readers' FAQ Student help Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Parental advice Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Copyright Introductions to contributing Main introduction List of tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Simplified ruleset The "Missing Manual" Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Wikipedia Adventure Accounts Why create an account? Logging in Email confirmation Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Pillars, policies and guidelines Five pillars Manual of Style Simplified Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks What Wikipedia is not Getting help Help menu Help desk Reference Desk Category Requests for help Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Contact us Wikipedia community Departments Meetups WikiProjects Overview FAQ Village pump policy technical proposals idea lab wikimedia misc Newsletters : Signpost Library Newsletter GLAM Newsletter Informational: Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Maintenance Task Center Essays Open letters Sourcing and referencing Research Research desk Wikipedia Library Request Resources Free resources Request access to major databases WikiProject Resource Exchange Shared resources Guidelines Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors How-to guides Category Tools Infoboxes Writing articles Development Better writing Files Images Media files Uploading Deletion User contribution pages Editing pages Diffs Namespaces Deletion Merging Renaming Requests Redirecting Reverting Vandalism cleanup Talk pages Archiving Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Substitution Transclusion Image and video markup Tutorial Linking Directories and glossaries Category Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index Shortcuts Tips v t e Wikipedia editor navigation - ( Search ) v t e Wikipedia key policies and guidelines (?) Five pillars Ignore all rules Content (?) P Verifiability No original research Neutral point of view What Wikipedia is not Biographies of living persons Copyright ( Copyright violations ) Image use Article titles G Notability Autobiography Citing sources Reliable sources Medicine Do not include copies of lengthy primary sources Plagiarism Don't create hoaxes Fringe theories Patent nonsense External links Conduct (?) P Civility Consensus Harassment Vandalism Ignore all rules No personal attacks Ownership of content Edit warring Dispute resolution Sockpuppetry No legal threats Child protection Paid-contribution disclosure G Assume good faith Conflict of interest Disruptive editing Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point Etiquette Gaming the system Please do not bite the newcomers Courtesy vanishing Responding to threats of harm Talk page guidelines Signatures Deletion (?) P Deletion policy Proposed deletion Biographies Speedy deletion Attack page Oversight Revision deletion Enforcement (?) P Administrators Banning Blocking Page protection Editing (?) P Editing policy G Article size Summary style Be bold Disambiguation Hatnotes Broad-concept article Understandability Style Manual of Style Contents Accessibility Dates and numbers Images Layout Lead section Linking Lists Classification Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Template namespace Project content (?) G Project namespace WikiProjects User pages User boxes Shortcuts Subpages WMF (?) P Universal Code of Conduct Terms of Use List of policies Friendly space policy Licensing and copyright Privacy policy List of all policies and guidelines P : List of policies G : List of guidelines Summaries of values and principles v t e Manual of Style Overview Contents Tips Content Accessibility Biography Disambiguation pages Organizing by subject area Gender identity Hidden text Infoboxes Linking Self-references Words to watch Formatting Abbreviations Capitalization Dates and numbers Pronunciation Spelling Text formatting Titles of works Images Captions Image placement Icons Images Layout Layout Lead section Tables Trivia sections Lists Lists Lists of works Road junctions Stand-alone lists By topic area Arts Anime and manga Comics Film Lyrics and poetry Novels Television Video games Visual arts Writing about fiction WikiProject style advice Music Music Music samples Record charts Stringed instruments WikiProject style advice History Blazons Military history WikiProject style advice Legal and cultural Legal Trademarks WikiProject style advice Regional Specific naming conventions Canada China (and Chinese) France (and French) Egypt Hawaii India Indonesia Ireland Japan Korea Malaysia Macedonia Pakistan Philippines Poland Singapore WikiProject style advice Religion and education Islam Latter Day Saints WikiProject style advice Science and technology Mathematics Medicine Chemistry Compound classes Chemicals References and external links Safety Structure drawing Computer science Taxonomy WikiProject style advice Sports Cue sports Snooker WikiProject style advice Related guidelines Article size Article titles Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Hatnotes Subpages Understandability Search Category v t e Wikipedia accounts and governance Unregistered (IP) users Why create an account? Create an account Request an account IPs are human too IP addresses are not people IP hopper Registered users New account Logging in Reset passwords Username policy Changing username Usernames for administrator attention Unified login or SUL Alternate account Account security Password strength requirements User account security Personal security practices Two-factor authentication 2FA for AWB Committed identity On privacy, confidentiality and discretion Compromised accounts How to not get outed Blocks, bans, sanctions, global actions Blocking policy FAQ Admin's guide Tools Autoblock Appealing a block Guide to appealing blocks UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System Blocking IP addresses Range blocks IPv6 Open proxies Banning policy ArbCom appeals Sanctions Personal sanctions General sanctions Contentious topics and Log Essay Indef ≠ infinite Long-term abuse Standard offer Global actions Related to accounts Sockpuppetry Single-purpose account Sleeper account Vandalism-only account Wikibreak Enforcer Retiring Courtesy vanishing Clean start Quiet return User groups and global user groups Requests for permissions Admin instructions Admin guide Account creator PERM (Auto) confirmed PERM Autopatrolled PERM AutoWikiBrowser PERM Bot Request Edit filter helper Request Event coordinator PERM Extended confirmed PERM File mover PERM IP block exempt Request Mass message sender PERM New page reviewer PERM Page mover PERM Pending changes reviewer PERM Rollback PERM Template editor PERM Global rights policy Volunteer Response Team Advanced user groups Administrator RfA Bureaucrat RfB CheckUser and Oversight Request Edit filter manager Request Interface administrator Request Founder Importer Researcher Committees and related Arbitration Committee Bot approvals group Functionaries Clerks SPI clerks ArbCom clerks Governance Administration FAQ Formal organization Editorial oversight and control Quality control Wikimedia Foundation Board Founder's seat Meta-Wiki Proposals WikiProjects Elections Policies and guidelines Petitions Noticeboards Consensus Dispute resolution Reforms v t e Wikipedia community For a listing of current collaborations, tasks, and news, see the Community portal . For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the Dashboard . General community topics Administration News The Signpost Goings-on In the media Meetups Mailing lists Wikipedians Statistics The Wikipedia Library Centralized discussion Village pump Idea lab Policy Proposals Technical Miscellaneous WMF Holidays Bots Contents and grading Requested articles Most-wanted articles Images needing articles Articles needing images Articles for creation WP:AFC/R WP:AFC/C Creating articles Help Vital articles Articles for improvement Peer review Good article nominations Featured article candidates Lists Pictures Topics Article translation Pages Main Page Errors WikiProjects and collaborations Directory Culture and the arts Geographical History and society Science, technology and engineering Wikipedia assistance and tasks Patrols Recent changes Counter-Vandalism Unit Accessibility Organizations category Awards and feedback Reward board Contests A nice cup of tea and a sit down Charitableness WikiLove Compliment before criticism Kindness Campaign Thanks! Maintenance tasks Task Center Open tasks Backlog Category Admin category Edit requests Category Database reports Category tracker Dusty articles Special pages New pages Recent changes Controversial issues Administrators and noticeboards Administrators' noticeboard Incidents Edit warring Vandalism Admin dashboard Admin requests Closure Page protection User permissions Sockpuppets Open proxies Revision deletion Oversight Request Usernames Changing Title blacklist OTRS Bureaucrats' Requests for adminship and bureaucratship Arbitration Committee Requests Enforcement Content dispute resolution Requests for comment Third opinion Dispute resolution noticeboard Biographies of living persons Conflict of interest External links Fringe theories Neutral point of view No original research Reliable sources Other noticeboards and assistance Regional notice boards Requests for help Category Asking questions Teahouse Help desk Reference desk Adopt-a-user Copyright assistance Copyright investigations Text problems Media questions Resource requests Mergers History mergers Moves Page importation Spam Blacklist Whitelist Bots Education General sanctions Editor sanctions Long-term abuse Deletion discussions Guide Admin Today Articles Templates Files Categories Redirects Miscellany Speedy Proposed BLP Review Undeletion Arguments to avoid Arguments to make Article Rescue Elections and voting Requests for comment ( meta ) Wikimedia Foundation elections WP Democracy Milestones Directories, indexes, and summaries Departments Edit summary legend Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Abbreviations Help Manual of Style Simplified Rules Five pillars Policies Guidelines Shortcuts Templates Citation templates Tips Today Tools Wiki markup Media Category Templates v t e Wikipedia essays (?) Essays on building, editing, and deleting content Philosophy Article content Articles must be written All Five Pillars are equally important Avoid vague introductions Be a reliable source Civil POV pushing Cohesion Competence is required Concede lost arguments Dissent is not disloyalty Don't lie Don't search for objections Duty to comply Editing Wikipedia is like visiting a foreign country Editors will sometimes be wrong Eight simple rules for editing our encyclopedia Explanationism External criticism of Wikipedia Here to build an encyclopedia Large language models Leave it to the experienced Levels of competence Levels of consensus Most ideas are bad Need Neutrality of sources Not broken is ugly Not editing because of Wikipedia restriction The one question Oversimplification Paradoxes Paraphrasing POV and OR from editors, sources, and fields Process is important Product, process, policy Purpose Reasonability rule Systemic bias There is no seniority Ten Simple Rules for Editing Wikipedia Tendentious editing The role of policies in collaborative anarchy The rules are principles Trifecta We are absolutely here to right great wrongs Wikipedia in brief Wikipedia is an encyclopedia Wikipedia is a community Wikipedia is not RationalWiki Article construction 100K featured articles Abandoned stubs Acronym overkill Adding images improves the encyclopedia Advanced text formatting Akin's Laws of Article Writing Alternatives to the "Expand" template Amnesia test A navbox on every page An unfinished house is a real problem Article revisions Articles have a half-life Autosizing images Avoid mission statements Be neutral in form Beef up that first revision Blind men and an elephant BOLD, revert, discuss cycle Build content to endure Cherrypicking Chesterton's fence Children's lit, adult new readers, & large-print books Citation overkill Citation underkill Common-style fallacy Concept cloud Creating controversial content Criticisms of society may be consistent with NPOV and reliability Dictionaries as sources Don't demolish the house while it's still being built Don't get hung up on minor details Don't hope the house will build itself Don't panic Don't "teach the controversy" Editing on mobile devices Editors are not mindreaders Encourage the newcomers Endorsements (commercial) Featured articles may have problems Formatting bilateral relations articles Formatting bilateral relations templates Fruit of the poisonous tree Give an article a chance How to write a featured article Identifying and using independent sources History sources Law sources Primary sources Science sources Style guides Tertiary sources Ignore STRONGNAT for date formats Inaccuracy Introduction to structurism Mine a source Merge Test Minors and persons judged incompetent "Murder of" articles Not every story/event/disaster needs a biography Not everything needs a navbox Not everything needs a template Nothing is in stone Obtain peer review comments Organizing disambiguation pages by subject area Permastub Potential, not just current state Presentism Principle of Some Astonishment The problem with elegant variation Pro and con lists Printability Publicists Put a little effort into it Restoring part of a reverted edit Robotic editing Sham consensus Source your plot summaries Specialized-style fallacy Stub Makers Run an edit-a-thon Temporary versions of articles Tertiary-source fallacy There are no shortcuts to neutrality There is no deadline There is a deadline The deadline is now Try not to leave it a stub What is a reliable source Understanding Wikipedia's content standards Walled garden What an article should not include Wikipedia is a work in progress Wikipedia is not a reliable source Wikipedia is not being written in an organized fashion The world will not end tomorrow Write the article first Writing better articles Writing article content Avoid thread mode Copyediting reception sections Coup Don't throw more litter onto the pile Gender-neutral language Myth vs fiction Proseline Use our own words We shouldn't be able to figure out your opinions Write the article first Writing about women Writing better articles Removing or deleting content Adjectives in your recommendations AfD is not a war zone Arguments to avoid in deletion discussions Arguments to avoid in deletion reviews Arguments to avoid in image deletion discussions Arguments to make in deletion discussions Avoid repeated arguments Before commenting in a deletion discussion But there must be sources! Confusing arguments mean nothing Content removal Counting and sorting are not original research Delete or merge Delete the junk Deletion is not cleanup Does deletion help? Don't attack the nominator Don't confuse stub status with non-notability Don't overuse shortcuts to policy and guidelines to win your argument Emptying categories out of proccess Follow the leader How the presumption of notability works How to save an article proposed for deletion I just don't like it Identifying blatant advertising Identifying test edits Immunity Keep it concise Liar liar pants on fire Nothing Nothing is clear Overzealous deletion Relisting can be abusive Relist bias The Heymann Standard Unopposed AFD discussion Wikipedia is not Whack-A-Mole Why was the page I created deleted? What to do if your article gets tagged for speedy deletion When in doubt, hide it in the woodwork No Encyclopedic Use Essays on civility The basics Accepting other users Apology Being right isn't enough Contributing to complicated discussions Divisiveness Don't retaliate Editors' pronouns Edit at your own pace Encouraging the newcomers Enjoy yourself Expect no thanks High-functioning autism and Asperger's editors How to be civil Maintaining a friendly space Negotiation Obsessive–compulsive disorder editors Please say please Relationships with academic editors Thank you Too long; didn't read Truce Unblock perspectives We are all Wikipedians here You have a right to remain silent Philosophy A thank you never hurts A weak personal attack is still wrong Advice for hotheads An uncivil environment is a poor environment Be the glue Beware of the tigers! Civility warnings Deletion as revenge Duty to comply Failure Forgive and forget It's not the end of the world Nobody cares Most people who disagree with you on content are not vandals Old-fashioned Wikipedian values Profanity, civility, and discussions Revert notification opt-out Shadowless Fists of Death! Staying cool when the editing gets hot The grey zone The last word There is no Divine Right of Editors Most ideas are bad Nothing is clear Reader The rules of polite discourse There is no common sense Two wrongs don't make a right Wikipedia clichés Wikipedia is not about winning Wikipedia should not be a monopoly Writing for the opponent Dos Assume good faith Assume the assumption of good faith Assume no clue Avoid personal remarks Avoid the word "vandal" Be excellent to one another Be pragmatic Beyond civility Call a spade a spade Candor Deny recognition Desist Discussing cruft Drop the stick and back slowly away from the horse carcass Encourage full discussions Get over it How to lose Imagine others complexly Just drop it Keep it concise Keep it down to earth Mind your own business Say "MOBY" Mutual withdrawal Read before commenting Settle the process first You can search, too Don'ts ALPHABETTISPAGHETTI Wikipedia:Because I can Civil POV pushing Cyberbullying Don't accuse someone of a personal attack for accusing of a personal attack Don't be a fanatic Don't be a jerk Don't be an ostrich Don't be ashamed Don't be a WikiBigot Don't be high-maintenance Don't be inconsiderate Don't be obnoxious Don't be prejudiced Don't be rude Don't be the Fun Police Don't bludgeon the process Don't call a spade a spade Don't call people by their real name Don't call the kettle black Don't call things cruft Don't come down like a ton of bricks Don't cry COI Don't demand that editors solve the problems they identify Don't eat the troll's food Don't fight fire with fire Don't give a fuck Don't help too much Don't ignore community consensus Don't knit beside the guillotine Don't make a smarmy valediction part of your signature Don't remind others of past misdeeds Don't shout Don't spite your face Don't take the bait Don't template the regulars Don't throw your toys out of the pram Do not insult the vandals Griefing Hate is disruptive Nationalist editing No angry mastodons just madmen No Nazis No racists No Confederates No queerphobia No, you can't have a pony Passive aggression POV railroad Superhatting There are no oracles There's no need to guess someone's preferred pronouns You can't squeeze blood from a turnip UPPERCASE WikiRelations WikiBullying WikiCrime WikiHarassment WikiHate WikiLawyering WikiLove WikiPeace Essays on notability Advanced source searching All high schools can be notable Alternative outlets Arguments to avoid in deletion discussions Articles with a single source Avoid template creep Bare notability Big events make key participants notable Businesses with a single location But it's true! Common sourcing mistakes Clones Coatrack Discriminate vs indiscriminate information Don't cite GNG Drafts are not checked for notability or sanity Every snowflake is unique Existence ≠ Notability Existence does not prove notability Extracting the meaning of significant coverage Google searches and numbers How the presumption of notability works High Schools Historical/Policy/Notability/Arguments Inclusion is not an indicator of notability Independent sources Inherent notability Insignificant Masking the lack of notability Make stubs Minimum coverage News coverage does not decrease notability No amount of editing can overcome a lack of notability No big loss No one cares about your garage band No one really cares Notability and tornadoes Notability cannot be purchased Notability comparison test Notability is not a level playing field Notability is not a matter of opinion Notability is not relevance or reliability Notability means impact Notability points Notability sub-pages Notabilitymandering Not every single thing Donald Trump does deserves an article Obscurity ≠ Lack of notability Offline sources One hundred words One sentence does not an article make Other stuff exists Overreliance upon Google Perennial websites Read the source Reducing consensus to an algorithm Run-of-the-mill Solutions are mixtures and nothing else Sources must be out-of-universe Subjective importance Third-party sources Trivial mentions Video links Vanispamcruftisement What BLP1E is not What is and is not routine coverage What notability is not What to include Why is BFDI not on Wikipedia? Wikipedia is not Crunchbase Wikipedia is not here to tell the world about your noble cause Wikipedia is not the place to post your résumé Your favourite thing does not need a Wikipedia article Two prongs of merit Humorous essays Adminitis Ain't no rules says a dog can't play basketball Akin's Laws of Article Writing Alternatives to edit warring ANI flu Anti-Wikipedian Anti-Wikipedianism Articlecountitis Asshole John rule Assume bad faith Assume faith Assume good wraith Assume stupidity Assume that everyone's assuming good faith, assuming that you are assuming good faith Avoid using preview button Avoid using wikilinks Bad Jokes and Other Deleted Nonsense Barnstaritis Before they were notable BOLD, revert, revert, revert Boston Tea Party Butterfly effect CaPiTaLiZaTiOn MuCh? Complete bollocks Counting forks Counting juntas Crap Don't stuff beans up your nose Don't-give-a-fuckism Don't abbreviate "Wikipedia" as "Wiki"! Don't delete the main page Editcountitis Edits Per Day Editsummarisis Editing under the influence Embrace Stop Signs Emerson Fart Five Fs of Wikipedia Funny biographical images Seven Ages of Editor, by Will E. Spear-Shake Go ahead, vandalize How many Wikipedians does it take to change a lightbulb? How to get away with UPE How to put up a straight pole by pushing it at an angle How to vandalize correctly How to win a citation war Ignore all essays Ignore every single rule Is that even an essay? Mess with the templates My local pond Newcomers are delicious, so go ahead and bite them Legal vandalism List of jokes about Wikipedia LTTAUTMAOK No climbing the Reichstag dressed as Spider-Man No episcopal threats No one cares about your garage band No one really cares No, really Notability is not eternal Oops Defense Play the game Please be a giant dick, so we can ban you Please bite the newbies Please do not murder the newcomers Pledge of Tranquility R-e-s-p-e-c-t Requests for medication Requirements for adminship Rouge admin Rouge editor Sarcasm is really helpful Sausages for tasting The Night Before Wikimas The first rule of Wikipedia The Five Pillars of Untruth Things that should not be surprising The WikiBible Watchlistitis We are deletionist! Wikipedia is an MMORPG Yes legal threats You don't have to be mad to work here, but You should not write meaningless lists About essays About essays Essay guide Value of essays Difference between policies, guidelines and essays Don't cite essays as if they were policy Avoid writing redundant essays Finding an essay Quote your own essay Policies and guidelines About policies and guidelines Policies Guidelines How to contribute to Wikipedia guidance Policy writing is hard v t e Wikipedia help pages Visit the Teahouse or the Help desk for an interactive Q & A forum. FAQs (?) Reference desks (?) Noticeboards (?) Cheatsheet (?) Directories (?) About Wikipedia (?) Administration Purpose Principles Policies and guidelines What Wikipedia is not Disclaimer ( parental advice ) Making requests Who writes Wikipedia? Help for readers (?) FAQ Books Copyright Glossary Mobile access Navigation Other languages Searching Students Viewing media Contributing to Wikipedia (?) Advice for young editors Avoiding common mistakes Etiquette Simplified Manual of Style Simplified rule-set "Ignore all rules" "The rules are principles" Style-tips Tip of the day Your first article ( article wizard ) Getting started (?) Why create an account? Introductions by topic Graphics tutorials Picture tutorial IRC (live chat) tutorial VisualEditor user guide Dos and don'ts (?) Accessibility Biographies Biographies (living) Categorization Consensus Discussions Disambiguation Images Leads Links Lists References Tables Titles (of articles) How-to pages and information pages (?) Appealing blocks Article deletion Categories Citations/references Referencing for beginners Citation Style 1 Cite errors References and page numbers Convert Diff Editing Minor edit toolbar edit conflict Find sources Files Footnotes Image deletion Infoboxes Linking ( link color ) Logging in Merging New page review Page name Renaming pages Redirect Passwords Email confirmation Reverting Simple vandalism cleanup Talk pages ( archiving simple archiving ) User contributions WP search protocol Coding (?) Wiki markup Barcharts Calculations Characters Columns Elevation Hidden text HTML Lists Magic words Music symbols Sections Sounds Tables Templates Transclusion URL Visual files Directories (?) Abbreviations Contents (Encyclopedia proper) Departments Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Guidelines Manual of Style Policies Tasks Tips Tools Missing Manual Ask for help on your talk page (?) v t e Wikipedia referencing Policies and guidelines Verifiability No original research Biographies of living persons Reliable sources Medicine Citing sources Scientific citations General advice Citation needed Combining sources Offline sources Referencing styles Citing sources Citation Style 1 Citation Style 2 Citation Style Vancouver Bluebook Comics Citation templates Inline citations Footnotes Punctuation and footnotes Shortened footnotes Nesting footnotes Help for beginners Reference-tags Citations quick reference Introduction to referencing Referencing with citation templates Referencing without using templates Referencing dos and don'ts Citing Wikipedia Advanced help Cite link labels Cite errors Citation merging (bundling) Cite messages Converting between references formats Reference display customization References and page numbers Guidance on source reviewing at FAC Footnote templates Citation Style documentation Multiple references {{ Reflist }} {{ Refbegin }} Find references How to find sources Bibliographies Wikipedia Library Resource Exchange Reference Desk Book Sources Free newspaper sources Citation tools (External links) Citer Biomedical cite Citation bot MakeRef Refill WayBack OABot v t e Wikipedia technical help Get personal technical help at the Teahouse , help desk , village pump (technical) , talk pages or IRC . General technical help Browser notes Bypass cache Keyboard shortcuts Editing CharInsert Edit conflict Edit toolbar Reverting How to create a page IRC Tutorial Mobile access Multilingual support Page history Page information Page name Help Printing Software notices Editnotice Special Characters Entering User access levels VisualEditor Help Special page -related Special page help AllPages Edit filter Emailing users Logging in Reset passwords Logs Moving a page History merging Non-admin and admin-only page moves Notifications/Echo FAQ Page Curation Page import Pending changes Random pages Recent changes Related changes Searching Linksearch Tags User contributions Watchlist What links here Wikitext Wikitext Cheatsheet Columns Line-break handling Lists Magic words For beginners Conditional expressions Switch parser function Time function Redirects Sections and TOCs Tables Introduction Basics Advanced table formatting Collapsing Conditional tables Sortable tables Using colours Links and diffs Links Interlanguage Interwiki Permanent Diffs Simplest diff guide Simple diff and link guide Complete diff and link guide Colon trick Link color Pipe trick URLs Media files: images, videos and sounds Media help Files Creation and usage Moving files to Commons Images Introduction to images Picture tutorial Preparing images for upload Uploading images Options to hide an image Extended image syntax SVG help Gallery tag Graphics tutorials Basic bitmap image editing How to improve image quality Graphics Lab resources Sound file markup Visual file markup Other graphics Family trees Graphs and charts How to create Barcharts To scale charts Math formulas Math symbols Musical scores Musical symbols Timeline EasyTimeline syntax WikiHiero syntax Templates and Lua modules Templates Advanced template coding Template documentation Template index Template limits Template sandbox and test cases Citation templates Lua help Lua project Resources To do Substitution Purge Job queue Transclusion Labeled section Costs and benefits Guide to Scribbling Data structure Namespaces Main/Article Category Draft File File description page Help Portal Project/Wikipedia Talk Archiving Simple Template User User page design MediaWiki Bug reports and feature requests TimedMediaHandler extension Module Special HTML and CSS Cascading Style Sheets HTML in wikitext Catalogue of CSS classes Common.js and common.css User CSS for monospaced coding font Classes in microformats Markup validation Span tags Useful styles Customisation and tools Preferences Gadgets Skins Citation tools Cleaning up vandalism tools Customizing watchlists Hide pages IRC Scripts User scripts Guide List Techniques User style Tools Alternative browsing Browser tools Editing tools Navigation shortcuts Optimum tool set Wikimedia Cloud Services Beta Features at MediaWiki Automated editing AfC helper script AntiVandal AutoWikiBrowser Bots Creating history HotCat Huggle Navigation popups RedWarn Twinkle Ultraviolet WPCleaner Inactive igloo STiki See also: Category:Wikipedia how-to Category:Wikipedia information pages Further navigation at: Help pages Administrators Accessibility Accounts Bots Referencing Citation metadata Templates User scripts v t e Wikipedia templates Main namespace General Cleanup Verifiability and sources Disputes Hatnotes Infoboxes Links External link templates Linking country articles Lists Main page Section Sources of articles Quick reference Standard boxes Stub types Translation Other namespaces Compact TOC Category File Talk Template User Userboxes User talk Wikipedia WikiProject banners All namespaces Deletion Speedy Formatting Maintenance Merging Moving Requested Navigation Redirect pages Functional index Language codes Splitting Wikimedia sister projects Navboxes with templates Archive Articles for deletion Birth, death and age Button Category header Citation and verifiability Citation Style 1 Deletion review Editnotice Hatnotes Help desk Inline cleanup Introduction cleanup IPA Math Notice and warnings Organization infoboxes Proposed article mergers Protection Quotation Redirects Search Semantics Speedy deletion Notices String-handling Sup and sub-related Top icon Transwiki maintenance Unicode User talk pages User noticeboard notices Userboxes User rights Userspace linking Userspace Disclaimers Wikibreak WikiLove Inline images Wikipedia icons Discussion icons Comment icons Emoji Help pages Template documentation Examples of templates Maintenance template removal Requested templates Template help Quick guide Template namespace Related topics WikiProject Templates Index Category Search Category v t e Awards, decorations, and medals of Wikipedia Awarded by co-founder Jimmy Wales Order of the Day Wikimedian of the Year also by country Awards by WikiProject WikiCup Editor of the Week W Award Four Award Triple Crown Million Award Impact • Precious Barnstars and other personal awards Barnstar awards by topic Personal user awards Personal greetings and cheers Awards by country 2.0 Ribbons Awards by number of edits Service awards Incremental service awards Administrative service awards See also WikiLove Thanks! Reward board Contests Merchandise giveaways WikiProject Wikipedia Awards Kindness Campaign v t e Useful links Daily pages CAT:HELP WP:ANI WP:BLPN WP:BOTN WP:COIN WP:DASH WP:FTN WP:HD WP:MCQ WP:NORN WP:NPOVN WP:PUMP ( /A /M /P /R /T ) WP:RD ( /C /E /H /L /M /MA /S ) WP:RFC ( /MEDIA /BIO /ECON /HIST /LANG /NAME /PAG /PHIL /POLY /SCI /SOC /STYLE ) WP:RFF WP:RSN WP:SPI WP:THIRD WP:DRV ) Things to do CAT:BACKLOG CAT:M CAT:WRI WP:AFC WP:ASOF WP:DPWL WP:FAC WP:FAR WP:FPC WP:GAN WP:GAR WP:KIND WP:MISSING WP:PR WP:RD WP:RP WP:SPOKEN WP:UW WP:THQ WP:VITAL WP:WANTED WP:WC BrokenRedirects Disambigs LongPages NewPages OrphanPages TagsPages UncatImages UncatPages Resources CAT:HOWTO WP:AWARD WP:CATEGORY WP:CAT-R WP:CITE WP:CITET WP:COPYEDIT WP:CUTPASTE WP:CUV WP:DEPT WP:DFD WP:DISAMBIG WP:EDIT WP:FOOT WP:FORMULA WP:HAT WP:ICT WP:LAYOUT WP:LIBRARY WP:MAGIC WP:MERGE WP:PIFU WP:PRECEDENT WP:REDIRECT WP:STYLE WP:SUMMARY WP:TEMPLATE CatTree PrefixIndex Policies / Guidelines WP:3RR WP:ADMIN WP:AP WP:APPEAL WP:ATTACK WP:AUTOBIO WP:BAN WP:BLANK WP:BLOCK WP:BOLD WP:BOTPOL WP:BUILD WP:CANVASS WP:CFORK WP:CIVIL WP:CONFLICT WP:CONSENSUS WP:COPYRIGHT WP:DELETE WP:DISCLAIM WP:DISPUTE WP:DISRUPTIVE WP:DONTBITE WP:DPR WP:EP WP:ETIQ WP:EDITWAR WP:FRINGE WP:GAME WP:GOOGLE WP:HARASS WP:HOAX WP:IGNORE WP:IUP WP:LEAD WP:LEGAL WP:LIBEL WP:LINKS WP:LIST WP:LIVING WP:LOGOS WP:M WP:NAME WP:NONFREE WP:NONSENSE WP:NOT WP:NOTE WP:NPOV WP:NPS WP:OFFICE WP:ORIGINAL WP:OVERSIGHT WP:OWN WP:PACL WP:PD WP:PEACOCK WP:PERFORM WP:POINT WP:POLLING WP:PROD WP:PROTECT WP:RELIABLE WP:SELF WP:SOCK WP:SPAM WP:SPEEDY WP:STUB WP:TALK WP:TP WP:TRIVIA WP:USERBOX WP:USERNAME WP:USERPAGE WP:VANDAL WP:VANISH WP:VERIFY WP:WEASEL WP:WHEEL Administrators CAT:AB CAT:CSD CAT:PER CAT:RFU WP:AE WP:AIV WP:AN WP:ANEW WP:ARL WP:CP WP:DGFA WP:NAS WP:OP WP:RFA WP:RFARB WP:RFM WP:RFPP WP:RM WP:RSPAM WP:UAA BlockLog DelLog ProtectLog External links Article statistics Edit Counter FIST ISBNdb Make Reference Wikichecker WikiEN-l archives Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Community_portal&oldid=1271744263 " Categories : Wikipedia basic information Wikipedia discussion Wikipedia directories Wikipedia news Wikipedia noticeboards Hidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages Wikipedia move-protected project pages This page was last edited on 25 January 2025, at 13:45 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Wikipedia : Community portal 216 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges
Recent changes - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Recent changes Help English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Atom Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide This is a list of recent changes to Wikipedia. Other review tools This page : Discuss this page – What does this page mean? Recent changes for: Featured articles – Good articles – Living people – Vital articles Utilities: RC patrol – New pages – IPs' contribs – Mobile contribs – Edit filter log – Cleanup – Vandalism – Deletion – RfC – Backlogs About Wikipedia : Introduction / FAQ / Policy – Stats – News – Village pump – Mailing lists – Chat – Wikipedia Signpost Recent changes options Show last 50 | 100 | 250 | 500 changes in last 1 | 3 | 7 | 14 | 30 days Hide registered users | Hide unregistered users | Hide my edits | Show bots | Hide minor edits | Show page categorization | Show Wikidata | Hide probably good edits Show new changes starting from 10:09, 10 March 2025 Namespace: all (Article) Talk User User talk Wikipedia Wikipedia talk File File talk MediaWiki MediaWiki talk Template Template talk Help Help talk Category Category talk Portal Portal talk Draft Draft talk MOS MOS talk TimedText TimedText talk Module Module talk Event Event talk Invert selection Associated namespace Tag filter: 2017 wikitext editor ABBA [1.0] Addition of protection template to non-protected page Advanced mobile edit Android app edit AntiVandal App AI assist App description add App description change App description translate App full source App image add infobox App image add top App rollback App section source App select source App suggested edit App talk reply App talk source App talk topic App undo Automatic insertion of extraneous formatting AWB Barnsworth [1.0] blanking Blanking Bot in trial bup 2 [1.0] campaign-external-machine-translation canned edit summary categories removed CD changing height and/or weight changing time or duration Citation bot [1.1.0] Citation Bot [1.2.0] citing a blog or free web host COI template removed Community Configuration condition limit reached content model change content sourced to vanity press contentious topics alert ContentTranslation contenttranslation-needcheck ContentTranslation2 ContentTranslation: High unmodified machine translation usage Contest or editathon copyright violation template removed Correct typos in one click [1.0] Correct typos in one click [1.1] CropTool [1.2] CropTool [1.4] CropTool [1.5] CropTool testing [1.0] DAB Mechanic [1.0] dashboard-testing.wikiedu.org [1.0] dashboard-testing.wikiedu.org [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [1.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [1.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.3] dashboard.wikiedu.org account-creation dev [1.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.11] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.3] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.4] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.5] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.7] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.8] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [2.1] demo-oauthratelimiter-3 [1.0] Deputy DiBabel [1.2] Disambiguation links added disambiguation template removed discussiontools (hidden tag) discussiontools-added-comment (hidden tag) discussiontools-source (hidden tag) discussiontools-source-enhanced (hidden tag) discussiontools-visual (hidden tag) Dispenser [1.0] Dispenser [2.4] Downstream Pull [0.1] draft or userpage link Edit Check (references) activated Edit Check (references) declined (irrelevant) Edit Check (references) declined (other) Edit Check (references) declined (uncertain) editcheck-newcontent (hidden tag) editcheck-newreference (hidden tag) editcheck-references (hidden tag) editProtectedHelper Education Dashboard development - awight [1.0] English Wikipedia Account Creation Assistance Tool [2.0] excessive whitespace External link added to disambiguation page extraneous markup featured article or good article template added or removed Find link [1.0] Fixed lint errors Fountain [0.1.3] Fountain Test [1.1] gabinaluz+app@gmail.com [1.0] harv-error Huggle IABot [1.0] IABotManagementConsole (Personal Debug Consumer) [1.0] IABotManagementConsole [1.1] IABotManagementConsole [1.2] IABotManagementConsole [1.3] image template modification Incorrectly formatted external link or image Invalid TimedText edit iOS app edit Jonathan_at_WINTR_7 [1.0] JWB KenBurnsEffect tool [1.1] large non-free file large plot addition large unwikified new article LCA Tools [1.0] LCA Tools [1.5] Localhost [1.0] Manual revert Mass pronoun change MassMessage delivery massmove Medha_Bansal_intern_at_WikiEduDashboard [1.0] mentor list change Mentorship module question Mentorship panel question missing file added missingredirectsproject [1.0] Mobile app edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit Modified by FileImporter moveToDraft MTC-Web for local dev/testing [1.0] MTCWeb-Dev [1.0] New redirect New topic New user adding protection template new user modifying archives new user moving page out of userspace Newcomer task Newcomer task: copyedit Newcomer task: expand Newcomer task: links Newcomer task: references Newcomer task: update Non-autoconfirmed user rapidly reverting edits non-English content nowiki added Nuke OAbot [1.0] OAbot [2.1] OAuth Uploader [1.0] outreachdashboard.wmflabs.org [2.0] outreachdashboard.wmflabs.org [2.1] pageswap GUI PageTriage Parliament edits PAWS [1.2] PAWS [2.1] paws [2.2] possible autobiography or conflict of interest possible birth or death date change possible BLP issue or vandalism possible conflict of interest possible cut and paste move or recreation possible MOS:ETHNICITY violation Possible self promotion in user or draftspace Possible self promotion in userspace possible unreferenced addition to BLP possible userspace spam possible vandalism possible WP:BLPCRIME issue possibly inaccurate edit summary ProveIt edit QuickCategories [1.0] QuickCategories [1.1] Recreated Redirect target changed reference list removal references removed removal of Category:Living People Removed redirect repeated addition of external links by non-autoconfirmed user Replaced Reply Reverted reverting anti-vandal bot review edit Rollback RW section blanking self-renaming or bad user talk move Shortdesc helper shouting Snuggle (English Wikipedia) [1.0.0] speedy deletion template removed STiki Suggested: add links Suggestor [0.0.1] SWViewer [1.0] SWViewer [1.2] SWViewer [1.3] SWViewer [1.4] SWViewer [1.6] Takedown Tools [1.0] Talk banner shell conversion talk page blanking Text added at end of page TorProxy [0.1] TorProxy [0.2] Twinkle U.S. Congress edit Ultraviolet Undo Unexpected #REDIRECT markup unsourced AFC submission use of deprecated (unreliable) source use of predatory open access journal User Analysis Tool [1.0] very short new article Visual edit Visual edit: Check Visual edit: Switched Weekipedia v3 [1.0] Weekipedia2 [1.0] wiki-file-transfer [1.0] wikieditor (hidden tag) wikiedu Assignment Wizard 2.0 Teting [1.0] wikiedu Assignment Wizard [1.0] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard (testing) [0.99] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard [1.0.1] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard [1.0.2] WikiEduDashboard NTDB [1.2] WikiEduDashboard NTDB3 [1.0] WikiEduDashboard NTDB4 [1.0] WikiEduDashboard NTDB5 [1.0] WikiEduWizard NTDB [1.2] Wikifile Transfer [1.0] Wikifile Transfer [2.0] Wikifile Transfer [4.0] Wikifile Transfer [5.0] WikiLeaks wikilinks removed WikiLoop Battlefield WikiLoop Battlefield Dev Local [2.0.0] WikiLoop Battlefield on WMF Cloud VPS [1.0] WikiLoop Battlefield Prod [2.2.1-beta] WikiLoop DoubleCheck WMF Cloud VPS (2020-07-13 version) [4.1.0] WikiLove WINTR Wikiedu Dashboard Local Test 3 [1.0] WINTR Wikiedu Wizard Local Test [1.0] WPCleaner yabbr [1.3] Invert selection List of abbreviations ( help ): D Edit made at Wiki d ata r Edit flagged by O R ES N N ew page m M inor edit b B ot edit (±123) Page byte size change Temporarily watched page 10 March 2025 diff hist m A453 road 10:09 −4 VividMyth talk contribs (removed erroneous link) diff hist Varunan 10:09 +487 Gowthamaprabu talk contribs ( → Music ) Tag : Visual edit diff hist Yashwantrao Holkar 10:09 +4 MCUnHistoryFan talk contribs diff hist Leonello d'Este 10:09 −3 Denisarona talk contribs (update) diff hist Talk:Andhra Pradesh/GA4 10:09 +336 Xiphoid Vigour talk contribs (promote Andhra Pradesh to good article ( GANReviewTool )) Tags : Mobile edit Mobile web edit Advanced mobile edit diff hist Mohamed S. Naji Haidara 10:09 +74 Ingratis talk contribs (Redirecting to Bahrain at the 2000 Summer Olympics#Athletics ( ♑ )) Tag : Redirect target changed diff hist Ametek 10:09 +275 Flight709 talk contribs Tag : Visual edit diff hist Tongrenelle 10:09 +21 Vlovlo2 talk contribs ( → References ) diff hist m Draft:What Makes Us Human (Yung Bleu album) 10:09 −10 Timtrent talk contribs (clean up ( DraftCleaner )) diff hist Kyle Filipowski 10:09 −2 195.164.169.2 talk Tags : Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist User:Sayurasem 10:09 0 Sayurasem talk contribs diff hist Your Face Sounds Familiar (Philippine TV series) season 3 10:09 −50 119.94.10.144 talk ( → Week 7 (April 17 & 18) ) Tags : Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist Madan Lal 10:09 0 2409:40e0:4b:9caf:483b:51ff:febd:eb4 talk Tags : possible birth or death date change Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist Clarence Howard-Johnston 10:09 +78 Dormskirk talk contribs ( → Career : add reference) Block log 10:09 Nick-D talk contribs blocked MaksimMiron13 talk contribs with an expiration time of indefinite (account creation blocked) ( Vandalism-only account ) diff hist Matriarchy 10:09 −17 Legionella552 talk contribs Tags : Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist Twitter 10:09 +150 Twillisjr talk contribs (“ Twitter has not exactly “open sourced” its algorithm as some have framed it. The code is heavily redacted and missing several configuration files, meaning that it’s essentially impossible for any independent researcher to run the algorithm on sample inputs or otherwise test it. The published code is also only a snapshot of Twitter’s recommendation system and is not actually connected to the live code running on its servers. That means Twitter can make changes to its production code and not…”) diff hist Kandy Muse 10:09 +38 121.98.83.116 talk ( → External links ) User creation log 10:09 User account Cyrus Machogu talk contribs was created diff hist Talk:Noelia Núñez 10:09 +13 Johnsoniensis talk contribs (wom) diff hist Antalya Airport 10:09 0 2a02:8071:6040:1700:61b2:ebff:976c:2434 talk ( → Traffic statistics ) diff hist Politics of the Australian Capital Territory 10:09 +115 Ehrenkater talk contribs ( → Recent territory election results ) diff hist User:Smallchief/SOE histiography 10:09 +5 Smallchief talk contribs ( → Background ) diff hist Gaza genocide 10:09 −67 Sparkle & Fade talk contribs (General formatting and copyedit, adding interlanguage link) Tag : Visual edit: Switched diff hist Controlled-access highway 10:09 +39 WarehouseWP.631 talk contribs diff hist Nokia 6103 10:09 +147 95.1.118.134 talk diff hist User:Vestrian24Bio/Templates/Userboxes/Contributions 10:09 +121 Vestrian24Bio talk contribs Tag : 2017 wikitext editor diff hist m Freestyle Chess Grand Slam Tour 10:09 −6 9ninety talk contribs Tag : Visual edit diff hist Bara bada bastu 10:09 +22 2a02:1406:260:ec11:dda:dc31:aeff:4ddf talk Tags : Visual edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist Tom Lewis (actor) 10:09 +280 Tiptiychnyc21 talk contribs ( → Early life : Added info from interview on early life location) diff hist Selyavi 10:09 −1 Tyloxs talk contribs diff hist Brookmans Park 10:09 +56 Entranced98 talk contribs (Adding short description : "Village in Hertfordshire, England", overriding automatically generated description) Tag : Shortdesc helper diff hist N Region Kalmar County 10:09 +7,224 Officialworks talk contribs (New Page, using Sv page as basis) Tags : Visual edit Disambiguation links added diff hist Scott Township, Bourbon County, Kansas 10:09 −385 Sbmeirow talk contribs (cleanup) diff hist m Eleatics 10:09 +14 Sartricis talk contribs ( → External links ) Tag : Visual edit diff hist Roberto Pedicini 10:09 +1,159 Tespiano talk contribs ( → Voice work ) diff hist Shirley Frimpong-Manso 10:09 +56 Collins Twum-Yeboah talk contribs Tag : Visual edit diff hist Motivic sheaf 10:09 +35 Samuel Adrian Antz talk contribs (Linked Deniz-Charles Cisinski.) Tag : Visual edit diff hist m Casco Bay Island 10:09 +20 Rodw talk contribs (Disambiguating links to ATV (link changed to All-terrain vehicle ) using DisamAssist .) diff hist Supergirl (TV series) 10:08 +8 63.222.7.136 talk ( → Design ) diff hist m Gcore 10:08 +4 Aleksei2366 talk contribs (Corrected a couple of grammatical errors) Tag : Visual edit diff hist m Probabilistically checkable proof 10:08 +201 Cedar101 talk contribs ( → Properties : {{math}}) diff hist Talk:Watching the Dark (novel) 10:08 −3 Keith D talk contribs (Update as redir) diff hist Norway in the Eurovision Song Contest 2025 10:08 −22 Sims2aholic8 talk contribs (Undid revision 1279333154 by Fort esc ( talk ) article is not linked within this navbox) Tag : Undo diff hist Indrani Mukerjea 10:08 −2 Rejoy2003 talk contribs (fix) Tags : Mobile edit Mobile web edit Advanced mobile edit diff hist Mark Williams (snooker player) 10:08 +498 Canary757 talk contribs (expanded champion of champions details) diff hist Southcote, Berkshire 10:08 −531 MIDI talk contribs (Undid revision 1279745260 by 2A02:3037:460:C85C:D62:8284:F6FF:C1E3 ( talk ) WP:AGF – this refers to a place in Bucks, not Berks) Tag : Undo diff hist The Fantastic Four: First Steps 10:08 +21 Billion Editz talk contribs diff hist Bupyeong High School 10:08 +19 Engsoclaw talk contribs Tags : Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist GMMTV 10:08 +489 PForWiki2002 talk contribs ( → Television and online ) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Recent changes Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard
Wikipedia:File upload wizard - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Wikipedia : File upload wizard 64 languages العربية অসমীয়া Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú भोजपुरी Bosanski ChiShona Corsu الدارجة Ελληνικά Esperanto فارسی Français Gagauz 贛語 한국어 Hawaiʻi हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano ქართული Қазақша Ladin Magyar Македонски മലയാളം मराठी مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Нохчийн Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча پښتو Polski Português Qaraqalpaqsha Română සිංහල Slovenščina Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Tagalog தமிழ் తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 粵語 中文 ⵜⴰⵎⴰⵣⵉⵖⵜ ⵜⴰⵏⴰⵡⴰⵢⵜ Edit links Project page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiversity Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Wikimedia file upload wizard Shortcut WP:FUW Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand copyright and the image use policy before proceeding. Upload your own or a freely licensed file Uploads to Wikimedia Commons Upload a non-free file Uploads locally to the English Wikipedia; must comply with the non-free content criteria You do not have JavaScript enabled Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain Special:Upload page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript. You are not currently logged in. Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please log in and then try again. Your account has not become confirmed yet. Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a confirmed account . Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it. You may already be able to upload files on the Wikimedia Commons , but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there. Important note: if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at Wikipedia:Files for upload . In very rare cases an administrator may make your account confirmed manually through a request at Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Confirmed . Step 1: Choose your file File: Choose a file from your computer. Maximum file size: 100 MB. Permitted file types: png, gif, jpg, jpeg, xcf, pdf, mid, mp3, mpeg, mpg, ogg, ogv, opus, svg, djvu, tiff, tif, oga, flac, wav, wave, webm, webp. Step 2: Describe your file Please provide a clear, descriptive name by which your file will be known on Wikipedia. This name must be unique across the whole of Wikipedia, so please make it informative and easy to recognize. It's no problem to use a fairly long name. It may also include spaces, commas and most other punctuation marks. Please also note that file names are case sensitive (with the exception of the first letter). Good: "City of London, skyline from London City Hall, Oct 2008.jpg". Bad : "Skyline.jpg", "DSC0001234.jpg". Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for # < > [ ] | : { } / and ~~~ . Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now. The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use: Titles that consist only of very generic descriptive words (e.g. "Sunset.jpg", "Townhall.jpg") Titles that consist only of a person's first or last name, when that name is likely to be shared by many others (e.g. "John.jpg", "Miller.jpg") Titles that consist of mere numbers, of the kind often produced by digital cameras ("DSC_001234", "IMGP0345"), or random strings like those sometimes found on the web ("30996951316264l.jpg") Existing file . Last uploaded by Example user . A file of this name already exists on Commons! If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases. Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead. If you want to replace the existing file with an uncontroversial, improved version of the same work, please go to Commons and upload it there, not here on the English Wikipedia's local wiki. A file of this name already exists. If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to: No , I don't want to overwrite the existing file. I will choose a different name for my new file instead. Yes , I want to overwrite the existing file. My file is merely a new, improved and uncontentious version of the same work. The old description page, including the source and copyright information, will still be correct for the new version and can remain the same. Yes , I want to overwrite the existing file, and I will use this wizard to add a new description and new source information for it. The previous version was my own, or else I have made sure the previous uploader(s) don't object to this replacement. Please provide a brief description of the contents of this file. This will be stored and displayed as part of the file description page. It is important that other editors are able to understand what this file is about. What does this file show? What is it a photo/diagram/recording of? It will be helpful if you also add a wikilink to the article where you want to use it. Step 3: Provide source and copyright information It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. This is a free work. I can demonstrate that it is legally okay for anybody to use, in Wikipedia and elsewhere, for any purpose. Thank you for offering to upload a free work. Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the Wikimedia Commons .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. Please consider uploading your file on Commons . However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here. Copyright status: This file is entirely my own work. I am the copyright holder. I made this myself, from scratch, without copying or incorporating anybody else's creative work, and I am willing to release it under a free license. Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. Do not use this section for any of the following: a scan or photograph you made of a painting, drawing, printed page or other item originally created by somebody else. The copyright belongs to the original creator, not to you. a screenshot or other kind of capture of a video, computer screen, TV programme or other kind of visual media. a picture you created by modifying or copying some other picture or by combining several preexisting pictures made by somebody else. a picture given to you by somebody else. a picture you found somewhere on the Internet. Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work" will be blocked from editing . Please describe how and when you created this item. How? (e.g.: Where and on what kind of occasion did you take this photo? How did you make this diagram? etc.) Date (please use YYYY-MM-DD format if possible). Publication: Please indicate here if you have previously published this item elsewhere, e.g. on your own website, your Flickr or Facebook account, etc., providing a link. It is important that you place this work under a free license, which will allow everybody else to use it for any purpose, including both commercial and non-commercial purposes, and to modify it. This license will be irrevocable. This file was given to me by its owner. The copyright owner of this file has given it to me for uploading on Wikipedia. I can provide evidence that they have agreed to release it under a free license, for free use by anybody and for any purpose. Please describe who owns this work and how you got it from them. Owner/author: Date of creation: Source: Where did you get the file from? (e.g. available online; was sent to me personally …) Permission: How did you receive the permission? (e.g.: by e-mail, personally, I work for the owner …) The copyright owner has chosen the following license: License: Other: Evidence: The license statement can be found online at: The license agreement has been forwarded to Wikimedia's volunteer response team at "permissions-en@wikimedia.org". OTRS ticket received: The license hasn't yet been forwarded, but I will do so shortly or ask the owner to send it. I haven't got the evidence right now, but I will provide some if requested to do so. Note: files without verifiable permissions may be deleted. You may be better off obtaining proof of permission first. This file is from a free published source. I took it from a website or other published source, where its author has explicitly placed it under a free license, allowing free re-use by anybody. Use this only if there is an explicit licensing statement in the source. The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this. If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please do not upload the file . Author/owner: Date of creation: Source: For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) The copyright owner has chosen the following license for this file: License: Other: Evidence: Provide a link to where the author explicitly says that the file is released under a free license. (if not visible on the source page itself). This work is so old its copyright has expired This is an old photograph, or a photographic reproduction of an old painting, drawing, etc. I can provide enough information about its author and provenance to prove that it is old enough for its copyright to have expired. It is now legally in the Public Domain . Original author: Please name the original author of this work. Lifetime: Specify date of death, if applicable to public domain status. In many cases, we need to be certain the author died before a certain year, in many cases before 1930. Original publication: Provide as much information as possible about the original time and place of publication of this work. For print publications: provide full bibliographic information. Date of publication: Provide date of first publication, and date of creation if different. Immediate source: State exactly where you found this file. For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) Public Domain status: This work is free of all copyrights because: It was created and first published before 1930 and is therefore in the Public Domain in the US. It was first published outside the US , and it was in the Public Domain in its country of origin by the " URAA date ". For most countries, this means the author died 70 years before 1 January 1996, i.e. before 1926. Please look up the copyright rules for the specific country at [1] . It was first published in the US before 1989 , and its copyright expired because it was published without a copyright notice and/or without the necessary copyright registration. Please look up the exact rules at [2] . Its copyright expired for some other reason. [Please explain below]. Explanation: Please provide any evidence necessary to verify the public domain status. This file is in the Public Domain for some other reason. I can demonstrate that this work is legally in the Public Domain, i.e. nobody owns any copyrights on it. This may be for a variety of reasons, for instance because it was created by the US Federal Government, or because it is too simple to attract any copyright. Public Domain means that nobody owns any copyrights on this work. It does not mean simply that it is freely viewable somewhere on the web or that it has been widely used by others. This is not for images you simply found somewhere on the web. Most images on the web are under copyright and belong to somebody, even if you believe the owner won't care about that copyright. If it is in the public domain, you must be able to point to an actual law that makes it so. If you can't point to such a law but merely found this image somewhere, then please do not upload it. Author: Please name the original author of this work. Source: State exactly where you found this file. For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) Date of creation: Public Domain status: This work is free of all copyrights because: It was created by an agency of the US Federal Government. This does not apply to most US state and local agencies , nor to governments of other countries! It is an official governmental item, such as a flag, state emblem, banknote or postage stamp, from a country where such items are exempt from copyright according to local law. This does not apply to all countries, nor does it usually apply to all publications! (For instance, it usually doesn't apply to simple publicity photographs published on a governmental website.)  Please look up the copyright rules for the specific country in question. If the country does not have an exemption rule that applies to this item, go on with the section for " non-free copyrighted works " below. Explanation: Add any explanation or evidence necessary to substantiate your statement above. Cite and provide a link to the relevant law if possible. It is too simple to be eligible for copyright. This typically applies only to graphics that consist solely of simple geometric shapes and/or a few letters or words, or to items such as mathematical or chemical formulae. It may apply to some very simple logos that do not contain complex pictorial elements. It never applies to photographs! It is in the Public Domain for some other reason. Explanation: This is a copyrighted, non-free work, but I believe it is Fair Use. I have read the Wikipedia rules on Non-Free Content , and I am prepared to explain how the use of this file will meet the criteria set out there. Please remember that you will need to demonstrate that: The file will serve an important function in a particular article; ( NFCC8 ) It cannot be replaced by any other, free illustration that might yet be created; ( NFCC1 ) Its use does not negatively affect the commercial interests of its owner ( NFCC2 ) There will not be more non-free material used than necessary. ( NFCC3 ) This file will be used in the following article: Enter the name of exactly one Wikipedia article, without the [[...]] brackets and without the "http://en.wikipedia.org/..." URL code. It has to be an actual article, not a talkpage, template, user page, etc. If you plan to use the file in more than one article, please name only one of them here. Then, after uploading, open the image description page for editing and add your separate explanations for each additional article manually. Example – article okay. This article doesn't exist! The article Example could not be found. Please check the spelling, and make sure you enter the name of an existing article in which you will include this file. If this is an article you are only planning to write, please write it first and upload the file afterwards. This is not an actual encyclopedia article! The page Example is not in the main article namespace. Non-free files can only be used in mainspace article pages, not on a user page, talk page, template, etc. Please upload this file only if it is going to be used in an actual article. If this page is an article draft in your user space, we're sorry, but we must ask you to wait until the page is ready and has been moved into mainspace, and only upload the file after that. This is a disambiguation page! The page Example is not a real article, but a disambiguation page pointing to a number of other pages. Please check and enter the exact title of the actual target article you meant. Non-free use rationale This image is the object of discussion in an article. This is a copyrighted artwork or photograph, and the image itself is the topic of discussion in the article. The discussion is about the photograph or painting as such, as a creative work, not just about the thing or person it shows. Which of these options describes this item best? Who created this work? Author/owner: Date: Source: State exactly where you found this file. For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) Usage: The article as a whole is dedicated specifically to a discussion of this particular photograph/painting. (It is not just about the person or thing shown in the picture.) There is a substantial amount of encyclopedic discussion of this particular photograph/painting ( not just about the person or thing shown in it) in this article. The illustration is specifically needed to support the following point: If neither of these two statements applies, then please do not upload this image. This section is not for images used merely to illustrate an article about a person or thing, showing what that person or thing look like. This is a depiction of a copyrighted three-dimensional work or building , which is the object of discussion in an article. This is a photograph or other kind of depiction of a copyrighted, three-dimensional creative work, such as a statue or work of architecture. The article contains a discussion of that work which requires illustration. The photograph as such is free, or was provided by the creator of the sculpture. Which of these options describes this item best? First describe who created the original work depicted: Creator: Date: Usage: The article as a whole is dedicated specifically to this work. There is a substantial amount of encyclopedic discussion of this work in this article. The illustration is specifically needed to support the following point: Now describe who created the image : Author: Date: Source: State exactly where you found this file. For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) Image status The image was created and published by the same author who also holds the rights to the original object, and no alternative depiction could be suitably created. The author of the image has released the photographic work under a free license, or it is in the public domain: Name the license or describe the public domain status, adding any necessary evidence to make the licensing status verifiable. This is an excerpt from a copyrighted work . This is an excerpt from a copyrighted work, e.g. a screenshot from a movie or TV programme, a panel from a comic, or a sound sample from a song. Its presence is needed to support a piece of explicit critical discussion in an article related to that work or its creator(s). Which of these options describes this item best? Author: (author / copyright owner of the original work) Date of creation: Source: (where exactly did you get this file from?) Please explain what exactly in the article it is that you want to illustrate with this. Typically, the illustration must be used to support some specific issue of discussion in the article. Please be concrete and specific. Don't just copy boilerplate statements from elsewhere. State clearly, in your own words, what this particular file will be doing in this particular article. If necessary, please explain why this purpose cannot be achieved through text alone. This is the official cover art of a work. This is the cover or dustjacket of a book, the cover of a CD or video, the official release poster of a movie, or a comparable item. It will be included as that work's primary means of visual identification, at the top of the article about the book, movie, etc. in question. Note: If you plan to use it for any other purpose than this, please tick the box for "other non-free work" below. Which of these options describes this item best? Author: (author / copyright owner of the original work) Date of publication: Source: (where exactly did you get this file from?) This image will be shown as a primary means of visual identification at the top of the article dedicated to the work in question. A standard fair use rationale will be added that matches this type of use. If you plan to use the file for any purpose other than this, please do not use this section, but the one labelled "other type of non-free work" below. This is a logo of an organization , company, brand, etc. This is an official logo of an entity that is the subject of a Wikipedia article. It will be included as that entity's primary means of visual identification, at the top of the article in question. Note: If you plan to use it for any other purpose than this, please tick the box for "other non-free work" below. Which of these options describes this item best? Source: (where exactly did you get this file from?) This image will be shown as a primary means of visual identification at the top of the article dedicated to the entity in question. A standard fair use rationale will be added that matches this type of use. If you plan to use the file for any purpose other than this, please do not use this section, but the one labelled "other type of non-free work" below. This is a historical portrait of a person no longer alive. This is a historical photograph or other depiction of a person who is no longer alive. It will be used as the primary means of visual identification of that person in the article about them. Deceased since: (This type of file can typically only be used with people who are no longer alive.) Author: (Who made this image?) Original publication: (Where, when and how was this image first published?) Date of publication: Source: (Where exactly did you get this file from?) This image will be shown as a primary means of visual identification at the top of the article dedicated to the person in question. A standard fair use rationale will be added that matches this type of use. If you plan to use the file for any purpose other than this, please do not use this section, but the one labelled "other type of non-free work" below. Please explain why a free alternative to this image cannot be found. For subjects who died recently: have you made a reasonable effort to find people who might possess photographs of this person and might be willing to release one? For subjects who lived in the early-to-mid 20th century: have you considered if there might be an older photograph that has fallen in the public domain? Please explain why you are confident that our use of the file will not harm any commercial opportunities of its owner. We will typically not use a file if its owner has a potential commercial interest in its use, and if our use of it would compete with its original market role. This is some other kind of non-free work that I believe is legitimate Fair Use. This is a copyrighted work whose use does not fall into any of the classes above. I have read the Wikipedia rules on Non-free content , and I will explain how this file meets all of the criteria set out there. Which of these options describes this item best? Author: (Who made this image?) Original publication: (Where, when and how was this image first published?) Date of publication: Source: (Where exactly did you get this file from?) Please explain what exact purpose this file will serve in the article. Please be concrete and specific. Don't just copy boilerplate statements from elsewhere. State clearly, in your own words, what this particular file will be doing in this particular article. Your explanation must make it clear why the article would be significantly worse off without this file. Please explain why this purpose could not be served by text alone. Please explain why this purpose could not be served with an alternative, free illustration that could yet be found or created. For a file to be deemed replaceable, it is not necessary that a suitable replacement already exists. Even if it is merely possible that a replacement could be created, we will not use the non-free file. Please explain why you are confident that our use of the file will not harm any commercial opportunities of its owner. We will typically not use a file if its owner has a potential commercial interest in its use, and if our use of it would compete with its original market role. Remember that the use of non-free files must be minimal. This can mean several things: Don't use more files per article/topic than necessary Don't use the same file in more articles than necessary Don't use larger excerpts of a single work than necessary Don't use images of higher resolution than necessary In view of this, please explain how the use of this file will be minimal. Special source and license conditions (optional) Any further relevant information about this file? Edit summary: A brief description of why you are overwriting this file. This will not be saved on the description page, but will be shown in its edit history. Yes , I want this file to be immediately available in all Wikimedia projects, in all languages. I will upload it on the Wikimedia Commons . Clicking this button will redirect you to a page on Commons. This will only work if you are already logged in there, which is likely the case if you have a unified account . Check here to see if you are logged in. No , I want to upload this file locally. This way it can be used only on the English Wikipedia. We urge you to upload it to the Commons unless there is a very good reason for it to stay local. Often such local files are copied to the Commons for use elsewhere and deleted locally, requiring extra work for other volunteers. If you do not want your file to be copied to Commons and deleted locally, consider adding the {{ Keep local }} tag. Reset this form and start over. This file doesn't fit either of the categories above. This file doesn't seem to fall into either of the classes above, or I am not certain what its status is. I found this file somewhere, but I don't really know who made it or who owns it. Well, we're very sorry, but if you're not sure about this file's copyright status, or if it doesn't fit into any of the groups above, then: Please don't upload it. Really, please don't. Even if you think it would make for a great addition to an article. We really take these copyright rules very seriously on Wikipedia. Note that media is assumed to be fully-copyrighted unless shown otherwise; the burden is on the uploader. In particular, please don't upload: any file you simply found on some website, without knowing who its author or copyright owner is. any file you found somewhere, even if you have good reason to believe it has a copyright owner who would not mind us using it, but you don't have an explicit licensing statement from them. any file that was released for publicity purposes by its owners but doesn't have a fully-free license for free re-use for all purposes. any file credited to a commercial image agency, such as Reuters, AP or Getty Images. Such files normally cannot be used even under the "Fair Use" rules, except in rare cases. any file that is licensed for use exclusively on Wikipedia, or is free except that the free license excludes commercial use. If you are in any doubt, please ask some experienced editors for advice before uploading. People will be happy to assist you at Wikipedia:Media copyright questions . Thank you. Preview (test) This is the data that will be submitted to upload: Filename: Edit summary: Text: Upload in process Your file is being uploaded. This might take a minute or two, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your internet connection. Once uploading is completed, you will find your new file at this link: File:Example.jpg File successfully uploaded Your file has been uploaded successfully and can now be found here: File:Example.jpg Please follow the link and check that the image description page has all the information you meant to include. If you want to change the description, just go to the image page, click the "edit" tab at the top of the page and edit just as you would edit any other page. Do not go through this upload form again, unless you want to replace the actual file with a new version. To insert this file into an article, you may want to use code similar to the following: [[File: Example.jpg |thumb|right|insert a caption here]] If you wish to make a link to the file in text, without actually showing the image, for instance when discussing the image on a talk page, you can use the following (mark the ":" after the initial brackets!): [[:File: Example.jpg ]] See Wikipedia:Picture tutorial for more detailed help on how to insert and position images in pages. Thank you for using the File Upload Wizard. Please leave your feedback, comments, bug reports or suggestions on the talk page . Uploading media files Commons Wikipedia Commons Wizard (recommended for free files) Plain form for Commons (experienced users) Old form Files for upload process (recommended for new users) Plain form for local uploads (experienced users) Old guided form Help and guidelines Ask copyright questions Image use policy Non-free content This wizard Documentation Script Discuss Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard&oldid=1229064311 " This page was last edited on 14 June 2024, at 17:19 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Wikipedia : File upload wizard 64 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:SpecialPages
Special pages - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Maintenance reports 2 Lists of pages 3 Account management 4 Users and rights 5 Recent changes and logs 6 Media reports and uploads 7 Data and tools 8 Redirecting special pages 9 High use pages 10 Page tools 11 Spam tools 12 Growth tools 13 Events 14 Pending changes 15 Other special pages Toggle the table of contents Special pages Help English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide This page contains a list of special pages . Most of the content of these pages is automatically generated and cannot be edited. To suggest a change to the parts that can be edited, find the appropriate text on Special:AllMessages and then request your change on the talk page of the message (using {{ editprotected }} to draw the attention of administrators). You can also see what message names are used on a page by adding ?uselang=qqx to the end of its URL, e.g. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:SpecialPages?uselang=qqx will show (specialpages-summary) in place of this message, which allows you to find MediaWiki:Specialpages-summary . For an index of special pages, see Help:SpecialPages . Maintenance reports Broken redirects Dead-end pages Dormant pages Double redirects Lint errors Long pages Orphaned pages Pages not connected to items Pages with the fewest revisions Pages without language links Protected pages Protected titles Short pages Uncategorized categories Uncategorized files Uncategorized pages Uncategorized templates Unused categories Unused files Unused templates Wanted categories Wanted files Wanted pages Wanted templates Lists of pages All pages All pages with prefix Categories Category tree Disambiguation pages Entity usage External links search Pages linking to disambiguation pages Pages on topics near you Pages with a page property Pages with badges Redirects Search Tracking categories Account management Bot passwords Change credentials Change or remove email address Global preferences Global user account rename request Global user account vanish request Log in Log out Login unification status Notifications Preferences Remove credentials Reset password Reset tokens Topic subscriptions Users and rights Active users list Autoblocks Blocked users Create account Email user Global account manager Global accounts list Global group management Grants List OAuth applications List of globally blocked IP addresses and accounts Membership in global groups Password policies Search for global contributions User contributions User group rights User groups management Users Recent changes and logs Edit Recovery Edit filter log Gallery of new files New pages New pages feed Recent changes Related changes User logs Valid change tags Media reports and uploads File list Global file usage List of files with duplicates MIME search Media statistics Orphaned TimedText pages Search for duplicate files VIPS scaling test page Data and tools API feature usage API sandbox Book sources Edit filter configuration Expand templates Gadget usage statistics Gadgets Namespace information Statistics System messages Template sandbox Try hieroglyph markup Version View interwiki data Wiki sets Wikimedia wikis Redirecting special pages Delete a page Differences Edit a page New section Page history Page info Permanent link Protect a page Purge Random article Random page in category Random redirect Random root page Redirect by file, user, page, revision, or log ID High use pages Most linked-to categories Most linked-to files Most linked-to pages Most transcluded pages Pages with the most categories Pages with the most interwikis Pages with the most revisions Page tools Book Cite This Page Compare pages Export pages Mass delete Page assessments QR Code Generator URL Shortener What links here Spam tools Blocked External Domains Growth tools Impact Manage mentors Mentor dashboard Newcomer Tasks Events All events Cancel your registration for an event Delete event registration Edit event registration Event details Generate invitation list Register for an event Your events Your invitation lists Pending changes Page review statistics Pages using Pending Changes Pages with edits awaiting review Other special pages Automatic translation Community Configuration Content Translation statistics Contribute Discussion tools data structure Find comment Global rename progress Invitation list Math Formula Information ORES model statistics SecurePoll Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:SpecialPages " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Special pages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Search
Search - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Search Help English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide Search Content pages Multimedia Everything Advanced Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Search " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Search Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Cyber+City+Gurgaon
Create account - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Create account English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide Username (username policy) Your username is public and cannot be made private later. Password It is recommended to use a unique password that you are not using on any other website. Confirm password Email address (recommended) Email is required to recover your account if you lose your password. CAPTCHA Security check Refresh Can't see the image? Request an account Create your account Wikipedia is made by people like you. 1,274,996,363 edits 6,964,451 articles 126,071 recent contributors Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:CreateAccount " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Create account Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Cyber+City+Gurgaon
Log in - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Log in English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide Username Password Keep me logged in (for up to one year) Log in Help with logging in Forgot your password? Don't have an account? Join Wikipedia Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:UserLogin " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Log in Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyContributions
User contributions for 2409:40C1:5E:BFC0:A1D5:3778:6D8D:65B1 - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk User contributions for 2409:40C1:5E:BFC0:A1D5:3778:6D8D:65B1 Help English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Atom User contributions User logs Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide Results for 2409:40C1:5E:BFC0:A1D5:3778:6D8D:65B1 talk block log logs global block log filter log This IP address is currently partially blocked.
The latest block log entry is provided below for reference: 11:17, 3 March 2025 Sdrqaz talk contribs blocked 2409:4080::/25 talk from the page Dangal (TV channel) with an expiration time of 1 week (anon. only) ( Disruptive editing ) Search for contributions show hide ⧼contribs-top⧽ Username, IP address or CIDR range: Namespace: all (Article) Talk User User talk Wikipedia Wikipedia talk File File talk MediaWiki MediaWiki talk Template Template talk Help Help talk Category Category talk Portal Portal talk Draft Draft talk MOS MOS talk TimedText TimedText talk Module Module talk Event Event talk Invert selection Associated namespace Tag filter: 2017 wikitext editor ABBA [1.0] Addition of protection template to non-protected page Advanced mobile edit Android app edit AntiVandal App AI assist App description add App description change App description translate App full source App image add infobox App image add top App rollback App section source App select source App suggested edit App talk reply App talk source App talk topic App undo Automatic insertion of extraneous formatting AWB Barnsworth [1.0] blanking Blanking Bot in trial bup 2 [1.0] campaign-external-machine-translation canned edit summary categories removed CD changing height and/or weight changing time or duration Citation bot [1.1.0] Citation Bot [1.2.0] citing a blog or free web host COI template removed Community Configuration condition limit reached content model change content sourced to vanity press contentious topics alert ContentTranslation contenttranslation-needcheck ContentTranslation2 ContentTranslation: High unmodified machine translation usage Contest or editathon copyright violation template removed Correct typos in one click [1.0] Correct typos in one click [1.1] CropTool [1.2] CropTool [1.4] CropTool [1.5] CropTool testing [1.0] DAB Mechanic [1.0] dashboard-testing.wikiedu.org [1.0] dashboard-testing.wikiedu.org [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [1.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [1.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.3] dashboard.wikiedu.org account-creation dev [1.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.11] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.3] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.4] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.5] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.7] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.8] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [2.1] demo-oauthratelimiter-3 [1.0] Deputy DiBabel [1.2] Disambiguation links added disambiguation template removed discussiontools (hidden tag) discussiontools-added-comment (hidden tag) discussiontools-source (hidden tag) discussiontools-source-enhanced (hidden tag) discussiontools-visual (hidden tag) Dispenser [1.0] Dispenser [2.4] Downstream Pull [0.1] draft or userpage link Edit Check (references) activated Edit Check (references) declined (irrelevant) Edit Check (references) declined (other) Edit Check (references) declined (uncertain) editcheck-newcontent (hidden tag) editcheck-newreference (hidden tag) editcheck-references (hidden tag) editProtectedHelper Education Dashboard development - awight [1.0] English Wikipedia Account Creation Assistance Tool [2.0] excessive whitespace External link added to disambiguation page extraneous markup featured article or good article template added or removed Find link [1.0] Fixed lint errors Fountain [0.1.3] Fountain Test [1.1] gabinaluz+app@gmail.com [1.0] harv-error Huggle IABot [1.0] IABotManagementConsole (Personal Debug Consumer) [1.0] IABotManagementConsole [1.1] IABotManagementConsole [1.2] IABotManagementConsole [1.3] image template modification Incorrectly formatted external link or image Invalid TimedText edit iOS app edit Jonathan_at_WINTR_7 [1.0] JWB KenBurnsEffect tool [1.1] large non-free file large plot addition large unwikified new article LCA Tools [1.0] LCA Tools [1.5] Localhost [1.0] Manual revert Mass pronoun change MassMessage delivery massmove Medha_Bansal_intern_at_WikiEduDashboard [1.0] mentor list change Mentorship module question Mentorship panel question missing file added missingredirectsproject [1.0] Mobile app edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit Modified by FileImporter moveToDraft MTC-Web for local dev/testing [1.0] MTCWeb-Dev [1.0] New redirect New topic New user adding protection template new user modifying archives new user moving page out of userspace Newcomer task Newcomer task: copyedit Newcomer task: expand Newcomer task: links Newcomer task: references Newcomer task: update Non-autoconfirmed user rapidly reverting edits non-English content nowiki added Nuke OAbot [1.0] OAbot [2.1] OAuth Uploader [1.0] outreachdashboard.wmflabs.org [2.0] outreachdashboard.wmflabs.org [2.1] pageswap GUI PageTriage Parliament edits PAWS [1.2] PAWS [2.1] paws [2.2] possible autobiography or conflict of interest possible birth or death date change possible BLP issue or vandalism possible conflict of interest possible cut and paste move or recreation possible MOS:ETHNICITY violation Possible self promotion in user or draftspace Possible self promotion in userspace possible unreferenced addition to BLP possible userspace spam possible vandalism possible WP:BLPCRIME issue possibly inaccurate edit summary ProveIt edit QuickCategories [1.0] QuickCategories [1.1] Recreated Redirect target changed reference list removal references removed removal of Category:Living People Removed redirect repeated addition of external links by non-autoconfirmed user Replaced Reply Reverted reverting anti-vandal bot review edit Rollback RW section blanking self-renaming or bad user talk move Shortdesc helper shouting Snuggle (English Wikipedia) [1.0.0] speedy deletion template removed STiki Suggested: add links Suggestor [0.0.1] SWViewer [1.0] SWViewer [1.2] SWViewer [1.3] SWViewer [1.4] SWViewer [1.6] Takedown Tools [1.0] Talk banner shell conversion talk page blanking Text added at end of page TorProxy [0.1] TorProxy [0.2] Twinkle U.S. Congress edit Ultraviolet Undo Unexpected #REDIRECT markup unsourced AFC submission use of deprecated (unreliable) source use of predatory open access journal User Analysis Tool [1.0] very short new article Visual edit Visual edit: Check Visual edit: Switched Weekipedia v3 [1.0] Weekipedia2 [1.0] wiki-file-transfer [1.0] wikieditor (hidden tag) wikiedu Assignment Wizard 2.0 Teting [1.0] wikiedu Assignment Wizard [1.0] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard (testing) [0.99] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard [1.0.1] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard [1.0.2] WikiEduDashboard NTDB [1.2] WikiEduDashboard NTDB3 [1.0] WikiEduDashboard NTDB4 [1.0] WikiEduDashboard NTDB5 [1.0] WikiEduWizard NTDB [1.2] Wikifile Transfer [1.0] Wikifile Transfer [2.0] Wikifile Transfer [4.0] Wikifile Transfer [5.0] WikiLeaks wikilinks removed WikiLoop Battlefield WikiLoop Battlefield Dev Local [2.0.0] WikiLoop Battlefield on WMF Cloud VPS [1.0] WikiLoop Battlefield Prod [2.2.1-beta] WikiLoop DoubleCheck WMF Cloud VPS (2020-07-13 version) [4.1.0] WikiLove WINTR Wikiedu Dashboard Local Test 3 [1.0] WINTR Wikiedu Wizard Local Test [1.0] WPCleaner yabbr [1.3] Invert selection Only show edits that are latest revisions Only show edits that are page creations Hide minor edits ⧼contribs-date⧽ From date: To date: Show only edits pending review Hide probably good edits Search No changes were found matching these criteria. This is the contributions page for an IP user, identified by the user's IP address . Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several users. If you are an IP user, you may create an account or log in to avoid future confusion with other IP users. Registering also hides your IP address. ( WHOIS ( alt • old ) Geolocate ( Alternate ) Proxy Checker Current blocks XTools Global contributions ) ( RIRs : Africa America Asia-Pacific Europe Latin America/Caribbean ) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/2409:40C1:5E:BFC0:A1D5:3778:6D8D:65B1 " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search User contributions for 2409:40C1:5E:BFC0:A1D5:3778:6D8D:65B1 Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyTalk
User talk:2409:40C1:5E:BFC0:A1D5:3778:6D8D:65B1 - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk User talk : 2409:40C1:5E:BFC0:A1D5:3778:6D8D:65B1 Add languages Page contents not supported in other languages. User page Talk English Create Add topic Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Create Add topic General What links here User contributions User logs Upload file Printable version Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Welcome to this talk page People on Wikipedia can use this talk page to post a public message about edits made from the IP address you are currently using. Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people. You may create an account or log in to avoid future confusion with other logged out users. Creating an account also hides your IP address. Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:2409:40C1:5E:BFC0:A1D5:3778:6D8D:65B1 " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search User talk : 2409:40C1:5E:BFC0:A1D5:3778:6D8D:65B1 Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#Transport
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#Entertainment
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#Gateway_Tower
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#Cyber_Greens
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#Cyber-Hub
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#Gallery
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#See_also
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#References
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#External_links
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Cyber_City_Gurgaon
Talk:Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Talk : Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Page contents not supported in other languages. Article Talk English Read Edit Add topic View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit Add topic View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This article is rated Stub-class on Wikipedia's content assessment scale. It is of interest to the following WikiProjects : Business Low‑importance Business portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject Business , a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of business articles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks. Business Wikipedia:WikiProject Business Template:WikiProject Business WikiProject Business Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale . India : Delhi Low‑importance India portal This article is within the scope of WikiProject India , which aims to improve Wikipedia's coverage of India -related topics. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page . India Wikipedia:WikiProject India Template:WikiProject India India Low This article has been rated as Low-importance on the project's importance scale . This article is supported by WikiProject Delhi . Archives ( Index ) 2012 2015 This page is archived by ClueBot III . Start a discussion about improving the Cyber City Gurgaon page Talk pages are where people discuss how to make content on Wikipedia the best that it can be. You can use this page to start a discussion with others about how to improve the " Cyber City Gurgaon " page. Start a discussion Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1276837680 " Categories : Stub-Class WikiProject Business articles Low-importance WikiProject Business articles WikiProject Business articles Stub-Class India articles Low-importance India articles Stub-Class India articles of Low-importance Stub-Class Delhi articles Unknown-importance Delhi articles Stub-Class Delhi articles of Unknown-importance WikiProject Delhi articles WikiProject India articles This page was last edited on 21 February 2025, at 01:34 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Talk : Cyber City Gurgaon Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&action=edit
Editing Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Editing Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Page notice You are not logged in. Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits. If you log in or create an account , your edits will be attributed to a username, among other benefits . Content that violates any copyrights will be deleted. Encyclopedic content must be verifiable through citations to reliable sources . Anti-spam check.
Do not fill this in! {{Use dmy dates|date=December 2017}}
{{Use Indian English|date=December 2017}}
{{Infobox settlement
| name               = Cyber City
| official_name      = 
| other_name         = DLF Cyber City
| settlement_type    = Corporate park
| coordinates        = {{coord|28|29|40|N|77|05|26|E|region:IN|display=inline,title}}
| subdivision_type   = Country
| subdivision_name   = {{flag|India}}
| subdivision_type1  = 
| subdivision_name1  = [[Haryana]]
| subdivision_type2  = 
| subdivision_name2  = [[Gurugram]]
| image_skyline      = Cyber City Skyline.jpeg
| nickname           = Cyber City
}}
[[File:Cyber City View.jpg|thumb|275x275px]]
'''DLF Cyber City''' is a commercial area in [[Gurugram]], Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top [[information technology|IT]] and [[Fortune 500|''Fortune'' 500]] company offices.<ref name=toi1>{{cite web|title='Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport|url=http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/gurgaon/Cyber-city-Gurgaon-finally-gets-a-public-transport/articleshow/25662218.cms|work=The Times of India|access-date=19 September 2015}}</ref> The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub"<ref>{{cite web|title=The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth|url=http://www.ndtv.com/gurgaon-news/the-gurgaon-story-a-mirror-to-indias-growth-458043|publisher=NDTV|access-date=19 September 2015}}</ref> and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in [[Delhi NCR]]. Cyber City lies near [[Udyog Vihar]], which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48.

Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading [[restaurants]] and [[Retail|shops]], which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City.

==Transport==
In 2013, [[Rapid Metro Gurgaon|Rapid Metro]] was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with [[Delhi Metro]].<ref name=toi1/> Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. [[National Highway 48 (India)|The National Highway 48 (NH-48)]] runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress.<ref>{{cite web|title=Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos|url=http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/gurgaon/Diversion-rain-trigger-Cyber-City-chaos/articleshow/48152626.cms|work=The Times of India|access-date=19 September 2015}}</ref> A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion.<ref>{{cite web|title=Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road|url=http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/gurgaon/Flyover-brings-Cyber-City-closer-to-MG-Road/articleshow/46892646.cms|work=The Times of India|access-date=19 September 2015}}</ref> The [[Indira Gandhi International Airport]] is located close to the Cyber City. [[Delhi Metro]]'s Phase 4 includes the extension of the [[Yellow Line (Delhi Metro)|Yellow Line]] from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of [[Delhi]] at [[Connaught Place, New Delhi|Rajiv Chowk]] to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi.

==Entertainment==
Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like [[Decathlon]], [[Marks & Spencer|Marks and Spencer]], [[Nike, Inc.|Nike]], [[Skechers]], [[The Body Shop]], Chumbak, [[Uniqlo|UNIQLO]] and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a [[Kia|KIA MOTORS]] dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as [[Domino's|Dominos]], [[The Big Chill Cafe|The Big Chill]], [[Nando's]], [[Haldiram's|Haldirams]], Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc.<ref>{{Cite web |last=City |first=So |date=2023-11-10 |title=12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights |url=https://so.city/delhi/article/13-awesome-eateries-in-cyber-hub-to-indulge-in-finger-licking-global-delights |access-date=2024-02-20 |website=So City |language=en}}</ref>

== Gateway Tower ==
[[File:Gurgoan6.JPG|alt=The Gateway Tower|thumb|200x200px|The Gateway Tower]]
The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of [[DLF (company)]].

Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors.<ref name=":0">{{Cite web |title=DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram |url=https://www.dlf.in/offices/gurugram/dlfcybercity/gateway-tower |access-date=2024-03-30 |website=DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram |language=en}}</ref>

The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space.<ref name=":0" />

== Cyber Greens ==
[[File:Cyber Green Building, Gurgaon, Haryana, India - 20070613.jpg|alt=Cyber Green Building|thumb|Cyber Green Building in June 2007|170x170px]]
Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways.<ref name=":1" />

Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas.<ref name=":1">{{Cite web |title=Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview |url=https://www.dlf.in/offices/gurugram/dlfcybercity/cyber-greens-overview/ |access-date=2024-02-20 |website=Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview |language=en}}</ref>

== Cyber-Hub ==
[[File:DLF CyberHub.jpg|alt=Cyber-Hub|thumb|Cyber-Hub |200x200px]]
Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about {{convert|400000|sqft}}, with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts.<ref>{{cite web|title=DLF Cyberhub - About us|publisher=HaloBee|url=https://www.halobee.com/mall/dlf-cyber-hub-gurgaon/|access-date=19 January 2018|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20180624232818/https://www.halobee.com/mall/dlf-cyber-hub-gurgaon/|archive-date=24 June 2018|url-status=dead}}</ref><ref>{{Cite news|url=https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/services/hotels-/-restaurants/cyber-city-gurgaon-to-become-the-new-dining-destination-of-delhi-ncr/articleshow/56901601.cms?from=mdr|title=Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR|last1=Anand|first1=Shambhavi|date=2017-02-01|work=The Economic Times|access-date=2019-06-06|last2=Bailay|first2=Rasul}}</ref>

== Gallery ==
<gallery widths="200" heights="200">
File:Gurgoan6.JPG|Gateway Tower in Cyber City
File:Cyber Green Building, Gurgaon, Haryana, India - 20070613.jpg|Cyber Green building in 2007
File:DLF CyberHub.jpg|DLF Cyber Hub
File:Gurgaon CyberHub.jpg|A commercial area in DLF Cyber City
File:Walkway above highway near Belvedere Towers, Phase 2, Gurugram.jpg|A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway
File:Cyber City.jpg|Cyber City at night
File:DLF_Epitome_Tower,_DLF_Phase_3,_Gurugram.jpg|DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram
File:DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2, Sector 24, Gurgaon, Haryana 122021, India - panoramio.jpg|DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2
File:Perfect building at Gurgaon Delhi.jpg|A building in Cyber City
</gallery>

==See also==
*[[Electronic City]] in [[Bangalore]]
*[[HITEC City]] in [[Hyderabad]]
*[[Bandra Kurla Complex]] in [[Mumbai]]
*[[Hinjawadi]] in [[Pune]]
*[[Genome Valley]]
*[[Whitefield, Bangalore]]
*[[New Town, Kolkata]]
*[[Bidhannagar, Kolkata]]
*[[Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub]]
*[[FinTech Hub, Kolkata]]
*[[InfoPark, Kochi]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
*[http://www.dlfcybercity.com Official Website of DLF Cyber City]

[[Category:Economy of Gurgaon]]
[[Category:Economy of Haryana]]
[[Category:Industrial parks in India]]
[[Category:Business parks of India]] Edit summary (Briefly describe your changes) By publishing changes, you agree to the Terms of Use , and you irrevocably agree to release your contribution under the CC BY-SA 4.0 License and the GFDL . You agree that a hyperlink or URL is sufficient attribution under the Creative Commons license. Cancel Editing help (opens in new window) Copy and paste: – — ° ′ ″ ≈ ≠ ≤ ≥ ± − × ÷ ← → · § Cite your sources: <ref></ref> {{}}   {{{}}}   |   []   [[]]   [[Category:]]   #REDIRECT [[]]   &nbsp;   <s></s>   <sup></sup>   <sub></sub>   <code></code>   <pre></pre>   <blockquote></blockquote>   <ref></ref> <ref name="" />   {{Reflist}}   <references />   <includeonly></includeonly>   <noinclude></noinclude>   {{DEFAULTSORT:}}   <nowiki></nowiki>   <!-- -->   <span class="plainlinks"></span> Symbols: ~ | ¡ ¿ † ‡ ↔ ↑ ↓ • ¶   # ∞   ‹› «»   ¤ ₳ ฿ ₵ ¢ ₡ ₢ $ ₫ ₯ € ₠ ₣ ƒ ₴ ₭ ₤ ℳ ₥ ₦ № ₧ ₰ £ ៛ ₨ ₪ ৳ ₮ ₩ ¥   ♠ ♣ ♥ ♦   𝄫 ♭ ♮ ♯ 𝄪   © ® ™ ¼ ½ ¾ Latin: A a Á á À à Â â Ä ä Ǎ ǎ Ă ă Ā ā Ã ã Å å Ą ą Æ æ Ǣ ǣ   B b   C c Ć ć Ċ ċ Ĉ ĉ Č č Ç ç   D d Ď ď Đ đ Ḍ ḍ Ð ð   E e É é È è Ė ė Ê ê Ë ë Ě ě Ĕ ĕ Ē ē Ẽ ẽ Ę ę Ẹ ẹ Ɛ ɛ Ǝ ǝ Ə ə   F f   G g Ġ ġ Ĝ ĝ Ğ ğ Ģ ģ   H h Ĥ ĥ Ħ ħ Ḥ ḥ   I i İ ı Í í Ì ì Î î Ï ï Ǐ ǐ Ĭ ĭ Ī ī Ĩ ĩ Į į Ị ị   J j Ĵ ĵ   K k Ķ ķ   L l Ĺ ĺ Ŀ ŀ Ľ ľ Ļ ļ Ł ł Ḷ ḷ Ḹ ḹ   M m Ṃ ṃ   N n Ń ń Ň ň Ñ ñ Ņ ņ Ṇ ṇ Ŋ ŋ   O o Ó ó Ò ò Ô ô Ö ö Ǒ ǒ Ŏ ŏ Ō ō Õ õ Ǫ ǫ Ọ ọ Ő ő Ø ø Œ œ   Ɔ ɔ   P p   Q q   R r Ŕ ŕ Ř ř Ŗ ŗ Ṛ ṛ Ṝ ṝ   S s Ś ś Ŝ ŝ Š š Ş ş Ș ș Ṣ ṣ ß   T t Ť ť Ţ ţ Ț ț Ṭ ṭ Þ þ   U u Ú ú Ù ù Û û Ü ü Ǔ ǔ Ŭ ŭ Ū ū Ũ ũ Ů ů Ų ų Ụ ụ Ű ű Ǘ ǘ Ǜ ǜ Ǚ ǚ Ǖ ǖ   V v   W w Ŵ ŵ   X x   Y y Ý ý Ŷ ŷ Ÿ ÿ Ỹ ỹ Ȳ ȳ   Z z Ź ź Ż ż Ž ž   ß Ð ð Þ þ Ŋ ŋ Ə ə Greek: Ά ά Έ έ Ή ή Ί ί Ό ό Ύ ύ Ώ ώ   Α α Β β Γ γ Δ δ   Ε ε Ζ ζ Η η Θ θ   Ι ι Κ κ Λ λ Μ μ   Ν ν Ξ ξ Ο ο Π π   Ρ ρ Σ σ ς Τ τ Υ υ   Φ φ Χ χ Ψ ψ Ω ω   {{Polytonic|}} Cyrillic: А а Б б В в Г г   Ґ ґ Ѓ ѓ Д д Ђ ђ   Е е Ё ё Є є Ж ж   З з Ѕ ѕ И и І і   Ї ї Й й Ј ј К к   Ќ ќ Л л Љ љ М м   Н н Њ њ О о П п   Р р С с Т т Ћ ћ   У у Ў ў Ф ф Х х   Ц ц Ч ч Џ џ Ш ш   Щ щ Ъ ъ Ы ы Ь ь   Э э Ю ю Я я   ́ IPA: t̪ d̪ ʈ ɖ ɟ ɡ ɢ ʡ ʔ   ɸ β θ ð ʃ ʒ ɕ ʑ ʂ ʐ ç ʝ ɣ χ ʁ ħ ʕ ʜ ʢ ɦ   ɱ ɳ ɲ ŋ ɴ   ʋ ɹ ɻ ɰ   ʙ ⱱ ʀ ɾ ɽ   ɫ ɬ ɮ ɺ ɭ ʎ ʟ   ɥ ʍ ɧ   ʼ   ɓ ɗ ʄ ɠ ʛ   ʘ ǀ ǃ ǂ ǁ   ɨ ʉ ɯ   ɪ ʏ ʊ   ø ɘ ɵ ɤ   ə ɚ   ɛ œ ɜ ɝ ɞ ʌ ɔ   æ   ɐ ɶ ɑ ɒ   ʰ ʱ ʷ ʲ ˠ ˤ ⁿ ˡ   ˈ ˌ ː ˑ ̪   {{IPA|}} Wikidata entities used in this page Cyber City, Gurgaon : Title, Description: en, Miscellaneous (e.g. aliases, entity existence), Statement: P625, Sitelink, Statement: P402 Pages transcluded onto the current version of this page ( help ) : Template:Both ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Cite news ( view source ) (protected) Template:Cite web ( view source ) (protected) Template:Convert ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Coord ( view source ) (protected) Template:Country data India ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:DMCA ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Dated maintenance category ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Dated maintenance category (articles) ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:FULLROOTPAGENAME ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Fix comma category ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Flag ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Flag/core ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:If empty ( view source ) (protected) Template:Ifnoerror then show ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Infobox ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Infobox settlement ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Infobox settlement/styles.css ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Main other ( view source ) (protected) Template:Ns has subpages ( view source ) (protected) Template:Pagetype ( view source ) (protected) Template:Pluralize from text ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Reflist ( view source ) (protected) Template:Reflist/styles.css ( view source ) (protected) Template:SDcat ( view source ) (protected) Template:Short description ( view source ) (protected) Template:Short description/lowercasecheck ( view source ) (protected) Template:Template other ( view source ) (protected) Template:Use Indian English ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Use dmy dates ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Yesno ( view source ) (protected) Module:Arguments ( view source ) (protected) Module:Check for clobbered parameters ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Check for unknown parameters ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1 ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/COinS ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/Configuration ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/Date validation ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/Identifiers ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/Utilities ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/Whitelist ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css ( view source ) (protected) Module:Convert ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Convert/data ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Convert/text ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Coordinates ( view source ) (protected) Module:Coordinates/styles.css ( view source ) (protected) Module:Detect singular ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Disambiguation/templates ( view source ) (protected) Module:ISO 3166 ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:ISO 3166/data/National ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:If empty ( view source ) (protected) Module:Infobox ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Infobox/styles.css ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:InfoboxImage ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Infobox dim ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Infobox dim/data ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Infobox mapframe ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Mapframe ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Math ( view source ) (protected) Module:Ns has subpages ( view source ) (protected) Module:Pagetype ( view source ) (protected) Module:Pagetype/config ( view source ) (protected) Module:Pagetype/disambiguation ( view source ) (protected) Module:Pagetype/rfd ( view source ) (protected) Module:Pagetype/setindex ( view source ) (protected) Module:Pagetype/softredirect ( view source ) (protected) Module:Plain text ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:SDcat ( view source ) (protected) Module:Settlement short description ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:String ( view source ) (protected) Module:TableTools ( view source ) (protected) Module:Text ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Unsubst ( view source ) (protected) Module:Wikitext Parsing ( view source ) (protected) Module:Yesno ( view source ) (protected) This page is a member of 10 hidden categories ( help ) : Category:All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Category:Articles with short description Category:Coordinates on Wikidata Category:Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Category:Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Category:Pages using infobox settlement with no map Category:Pages using the Kartographer extension Category:Short description is different from Wikidata Category:Use Indian English from December 2017 Category:Use dmy dates from December 2017 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Editing Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&action=history
Cyber City Gurgaon: Revision history - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Cyber City Gurgaon: Revision history Help Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Atom Upload file Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide View logs for this page ( view filter log ) Filter revisions show hide To date: Tag filter: 2017 wikitext editor ABBA [1.0] Addition of protection template to non-protected page Advanced mobile edit Android app edit AntiVandal App AI assist App description add App description change App description translate App full source App image add infobox App image add top App rollback App section source App select source App suggested edit App talk reply App talk source App talk topic App undo Automatic insertion of extraneous formatting AWB Barnsworth [1.0] blanking Blanking Bot in trial bup 2 [1.0] campaign-external-machine-translation canned edit summary categories removed CD changing height and/or weight changing time or duration Citation bot [1.1.0] Citation Bot [1.2.0] citing a blog or free web host COI template removed Community Configuration condition limit reached content model change content sourced to vanity press contentious topics alert ContentTranslation contenttranslation-needcheck ContentTranslation2 ContentTranslation: High unmodified machine translation usage Contest or editathon copyright violation template removed Correct typos in one click [1.0] Correct typos in one click [1.1] CropTool [1.2] CropTool [1.4] CropTool [1.5] CropTool testing [1.0] DAB Mechanic [1.0] dashboard-testing.wikiedu.org [1.0] dashboard-testing.wikiedu.org [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [1.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [1.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.3] dashboard.wikiedu.org account-creation dev [1.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.11] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.3] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.4] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.5] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.7] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.8] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [2.1] demo-oauthratelimiter-3 [1.0] Deputy DiBabel [1.2] Disambiguation links added disambiguation template removed discussiontools (hidden tag) discussiontools-added-comment (hidden tag) discussiontools-source (hidden tag) discussiontools-source-enhanced (hidden tag) discussiontools-visual (hidden tag) Dispenser [1.0] Dispenser [2.4] Downstream Pull [0.1] draft or userpage link Edit Check (references) activated Edit Check (references) declined (irrelevant) Edit Check (references) declined (other) Edit Check (references) declined (uncertain) editcheck-newcontent (hidden tag) editcheck-newreference (hidden tag) editcheck-references (hidden tag) editProtectedHelper Education Dashboard development - awight [1.0] English Wikipedia Account Creation Assistance Tool [2.0] excessive whitespace External link added to disambiguation page extraneous markup featured article or good article template added or removed Find link [1.0] Fixed lint errors Fountain [0.1.3] Fountain Test [1.1] gabinaluz+app@gmail.com [1.0] harv-error Huggle IABot [1.0] IABotManagementConsole (Personal Debug Consumer) [1.0] IABotManagementConsole [1.1] IABotManagementConsole [1.2] IABotManagementConsole [1.3] image template modification Incorrectly formatted external link or image Invalid TimedText edit iOS app edit Jonathan_at_WINTR_7 [1.0] JWB KenBurnsEffect tool [1.1] large non-free file large plot addition large unwikified new article LCA Tools [1.0] LCA Tools [1.5] Localhost [1.0] Manual revert Mass pronoun change MassMessage delivery massmove Medha_Bansal_intern_at_WikiEduDashboard [1.0] mentor list change Mentorship module question Mentorship panel question missing file added missingredirectsproject [1.0] Mobile app edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit Modified by FileImporter moveToDraft MTC-Web for local dev/testing [1.0] MTCWeb-Dev [1.0] New redirect New topic New user adding protection template new user modifying archives new user moving page out of userspace Newcomer task Newcomer task: copyedit Newcomer task: expand Newcomer task: links Newcomer task: references Newcomer task: update Non-autoconfirmed user rapidly reverting edits non-English content nowiki added Nuke OAbot [1.0] OAbot [2.1] OAuth Uploader [1.0] outreachdashboard.wmflabs.org [2.0] outreachdashboard.wmflabs.org [2.1] pageswap GUI PageTriage Parliament edits PAWS [1.2] PAWS [2.1] paws [2.2] possible autobiography or conflict of interest possible birth or death date change possible BLP issue or vandalism possible conflict of interest possible cut and paste move or recreation possible MOS:ETHNICITY violation Possible self promotion in user or draftspace Possible self promotion in userspace possible unreferenced addition to BLP possible userspace spam possible vandalism possible WP:BLPCRIME issue possibly inaccurate edit summary ProveIt edit QuickCategories [1.0] QuickCategories [1.1] Recreated Redirect target changed reference list removal references removed removal of Category:Living People Removed redirect repeated addition of external links by non-autoconfirmed user Replaced Reply Reverted reverting anti-vandal bot review edit Rollback RW section blanking self-renaming or bad user talk move Shortdesc helper shouting Snuggle (English Wikipedia) [1.0.0] speedy deletion template removed STiki Suggested: add links Suggestor [0.0.1] SWViewer [1.0] SWViewer [1.2] SWViewer [1.3] SWViewer [1.4] SWViewer [1.6] Takedown Tools [1.0] Talk banner shell conversion talk page blanking Text added at end of page TorProxy [0.1] TorProxy [0.2] Twinkle U.S. Congress edit Ultraviolet Undo Unexpected #REDIRECT markup unsourced AFC submission use of deprecated (unreliable) source use of predatory open access journal User Analysis Tool [1.0] very short new article Visual edit Visual edit: Check Visual edit: Switched Weekipedia v3 [1.0] Weekipedia2 [1.0] wiki-file-transfer [1.0] wikieditor (hidden tag) wikiedu Assignment Wizard 2.0 Teting [1.0] wikiedu Assignment Wizard [1.0] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard (testing) [0.99] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard [1.0.1] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard [1.0.2] WikiEduDashboard NTDB [1.2] WikiEduDashboard NTDB3 [1.0] WikiEduDashboard NTDB4 [1.0] WikiEduDashboard NTDB5 [1.0] WikiEduWizard NTDB [1.2] Wikifile Transfer [1.0] Wikifile Transfer [2.0] Wikifile Transfer [4.0] Wikifile Transfer [5.0] WikiLeaks wikilinks removed WikiLoop Battlefield WikiLoop Battlefield Dev Local [2.0.0] WikiLoop Battlefield on WMF Cloud VPS [1.0] WikiLoop Battlefield Prod [2.2.1-beta] WikiLoop DoubleCheck WMF Cloud VPS (2020-07-13 version) [4.1.0] WikiLove WINTR Wikiedu Dashboard Local Test 3 [1.0] WINTR Wikiedu Wizard Local Test [1.0] WPCleaner yabbr [1.3] Invert selection Show revisions External tools: Find addition/removal ( Alternate ) Find edits by user ( Alternate ) Page statistics Pageviews Fix dead links For any version listed below, click on its date to view it. For more help, see Help:Page history and Help:Edit summary . (cur) = difference from current version, (prev) = difference from preceding version, m = minor edit , → = section edit , ← = automatic edit summary ( newest | oldest ) View ( newer 50 | older 50 ) ( 20 | 50 | 100 | 250 | 500 ) 25 November 2024 cur prev 14:27 14:27, 25 November 2024 VideshiBhaktNRI talk contribs 8,522 bytes +8 → Gallery undo 2 November 2024 cur prev 12:36 12:36, 2 November 2024 Neils51 talk contribs 8,514 bytes +3 replaced: stationary → stationery undo Tag : AWB 15 October 2024 cur prev 11:54 11:54, 15 October 2024 Valenciano talk contribs 8,511 bytes −218 Restored revision 1241653721 by 136.232.148.42 ( talk ): Remove linkspam undo Tags : Twinkle Undo cur prev 11:53 11:53, 15 October 2024 223.190.83.28 talk 8,729 bytes +145 → See also undo Tag : Reverted cur prev 11:52 11:52, 15 October 2024 223.190.83.28 talk 8,584 bytes +1 → External links undo Tag : Reverted cur prev 11:52 11:52, 15 October 2024 223.190.83.28 talk 8,583 bytes +72 → External links undo Tag : Reverted 22 August 2024 cur prev 12:16 12:16, 22 August 2024 136.232.148.42 talk 8,511 bytes −171 → Entertainment undo Tag : Visual edit 1 August 2024 cur prev 08:35 08:35, 1 August 2024 Wikishovel talk contribs 8,682 bytes −5 clean up ( DraftCleaner ) undo cur prev 08:34 08:34, 1 August 2024 Wikishovel talk contribs 8,687 bytes −886 Reverted blatant self-promotion undo cur prev 07:13 07:13, 1 August 2024 Skysuiteshotel098 talk contribs m 9,573 bytes +244 Top-Rated Restaurants at cyber-hub undo Tag : Visual edit cur prev 07:07 07:07, 1 August 2024 Skysuiteshotel098 talk contribs m 9,329 bytes +460 Cyber hub places undo Tag : Visual edit 21 May 2024 cur prev 03:20 03:20, 21 May 2024 Hemant Dabral talk contribs m 8,869 bytes 0 Hemant Dabral moved page Cyber City, Gurgaon to Cyber City Gurgaon undo 27 April 2024 cur prev 04:29 04:29, 27 April 2024 HeyElliott talk contribs 8,869 bytes −52 MOS:CAPS , MOS:SOB , redundant, MOS:T undo Tag : 2017 wikitext editor 4 April 2024 cur prev 01:51 01:51, 4 April 2024 KMWAR talk contribs 8,921 bytes −32 Replaced old name with new name of city undo Tags : Visual edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit cur prev 01:49 01:49, 4 April 2024 KMWAR talk contribs 8,953 bytes +1 Replaced old name with new name of city undo Tags : Visual edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit cur prev 01:44 01:44, 4 April 2024 KMWAR talk contribs m 8,952 bytes +1 Replaced old name with new name undo Tags : Visual edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit 30 March 2024 cur prev 16:03 16:03, 30 March 2024 Lolziee talk contribs m 8,951 bytes +21 Fixed some of the images undo Tag : Visual edit cur prev 15:55 15:55, 30 March 2024 Lolziee talk contribs 8,930 bytes +2 No edit summary undo Tag : Visual edit cur prev 15:51 15:51, 30 March 2024 Lolziee talk contribs 8,928 bytes +1,392 Added images, added more information, fixed some of the article, and improved the article. undo Tag : Visual edit 18 March 2024 cur prev 09:07 09:07, 18 March 2024 106.216.237.140 talk 7,536 bytes +194 → Gallery undo 15 March 2024 cur prev 14:28 14:28, 15 March 2024 Deor talk contribs 7,342 bytes +26 tweak overprecise coords; mv {{coord}} into infobox undo 23 February 2024 cur prev 21:44 21:44, 23 February 2024 The Anomebot2 talk contribs 7,316 bytes −27 Removing geodata: {{coord missing|Haryana}} undo 20 February 2024 cur prev 20:07 20:07, 20 February 2024 Rodw talk contribs m 7,343 bytes +11 Disambiguating links to Nike (link changed to Nike, Inc. ) using DisamAssist . undo cur prev 10:45 10:45, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 7,332 bytes −4 copy editing undo Tag : Visual edit cur prev 10:42 10:42, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 7,336 bytes +249 added citation undo Tag : Visual edit cur prev 10:39 10:39, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 7,087 bytes −3 copy edit undo Tag : Visual edit cur prev 10:38 10:38, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 7,090 bytes +313 added citation undo Tag : Visual edit cur prev 10:36 10:36, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 6,777 bytes −20 Undid revision 1209112636 by ShwetaMiglani ( talk ) undo Tag : Undo cur prev 10:36 10:36, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 6,797 bytes +20 added wiki link undo Tags : Reverted Visual edit: Switched cur prev 10:35 10:35, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 6,777 bytes +58 added information undo Tag : Visual edit cur prev 10:31 10:31, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 6,719 bytes −2 copy edit undo cur prev 10:30 10:30, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 6,721 bytes +18 copy edit undo Tags : Visual edit: Switched Disambiguation links added cur prev 10:28 10:28, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 6,703 bytes +31 added information undo Tag : Visual edit cur prev 10:26 10:26, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 6,672 bytes +11 added information undo Tag : Visual edit cur prev 10:09 10:09, 20 February 2024 ShwetaMiglani talk contribs 6,661 bytes +52 added coordinates undo Tag : Visual edit: Switched 4 February 2024 cur prev 09:33 09:33, 4 February 2024 Whatif222 talk contribs 6,609 bytes −164 added the Indian flag in the infobox undo Tags : Visual edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit 8 December 2023 cur prev 19:38 19:38, 8 December 2023 106.221.200.142 talk 6,773 bytes −15 → See also undo 4 December 2023 cur prev 18:55 18:55, 4 December 2023 SchroCat talk contribs 6,788 bytes −52 No edit summary undo 2 October 2023 cur prev 02:29 02:29, 2 October 2023 Veer Bhargava talk contribs 6,840 bytes +37 → Transport : Updated the changed name of Metro station undo Tags : Mobile edit Mobile web edit 15 August 2023 cur prev 09:24 09:24, 15 August 2023 Khyatimiley2 talk contribs m 6,803 bytes +164 Edited the article undo Tag : Visual edit 12 July 2023 cur prev 07:27 07:27, 12 July 2023 14.143.159.3 talk 6,639 bytes +39 No edit summary undo 5 May 2023 cur prev 15:27 15:27, 5 May 2023 27.7.76.228 talk 6,600 bytes +78 → Gallery undo 4 May 2023 cur prev 06:22 06:22, 4 May 2023 164.100.212.6 talk 6,522 bytes +1 No edit summary undo cur prev 06:22 06:22, 4 May 2023 164.100.212.6 talk 6,521 bytes −12 No edit summary undo cur prev 06:21 06:21, 4 May 2023 164.100.212.6 talk 6,533 bytes +2 No edit summary undo cur prev 06:21 06:21, 4 May 2023 164.100.212.6 talk 6,531 bytes +46 No edit summary undo cur prev 06:20 06:20, 4 May 2023 164.100.212.6 talk 6,485 bytes +61 No edit summary undo 28 April 2023 cur prev 15:19 15:19, 28 April 2023 49.37.241.63 talk 6,424 bytes −91 No edit summary undo 18 April 2023 cur prev 19:37 19:37, 18 April 2023 Joy goel talk contribs 6,515 bytes +2 → Transport undo 21 March 2023 cur prev 19:52 19:52, 21 March 2023 Joy goel talk contribs 6,513 bytes +14 → See also undo ( newest | oldest ) View ( newer 50 | older 50 ) ( 20 | 50 | 100 | 250 | 500 ) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Cyber City Gurgaon: Revision history Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Cyber_City_Gurgaon
Pages that link to "Cyber City Gurgaon" - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Pages that link to "Cyber City Gurgaon" Help Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide ← Cyber City Gurgaon What links here ⧼whatlinkshere-whatlinkshere-target⧽ Page: ⧼whatlinkshere-whatlinkshere-ns⧽ Namespace: all (Article) Talk User User talk Wikipedia Wikipedia talk File File talk MediaWiki MediaWiki talk Template Template talk Help Help talk Category Category talk Portal Portal talk Draft Draft talk MOS MOS talk TimedText TimedText talk Module Module talk Event Event talk Invert selection ⧼whatlinkshere-whatlinkshere-filter⧽ Hide transclusions Hide links Hide redirects Go The following pages link to Cyber City Gurgaon External tools ( link count transclusion count sorted list ) · See help page for transcluding these entries Showing 12 items. View ( previous 50 | next 50 ) ( 20 | 50 | 100 | 250 | 500 ) Kushal Pal Singh ( links | edit ) List of technology centers ( links | edit ) List of special economic zones in India ( links | edit ) Cyber City ( links | edit ) List of tallest buildings in Gurgaon ( links | edit ) Cyber City, Gurgaon (redirect page) ( links | edit ) Haryana ( links | edit ) Muslim Brotherhood ( links | edit ) American Express ( links | edit ) Gurgaon ( links | edit ) Potbelly Sandwich Shop ( links | edit ) Gurgaon district ( links | edit ) List of shopping streets and districts by city ( links | edit ) DLF (company) ( links | edit ) Indus Towers ( links | edit ) Kokapet ( links | edit ) Rapid Metro Gurgaon ( links | edit ) Cyber City metro station ( links | edit ) The Office Pass ( links | edit ) Nestlé India ( links | edit ) Talk:Cyber City Gurgaon/Archives/2015 ( links | edit ) Talk:Gurgaon/Archive 1 ( links | edit ) Talk:Cyber City, Gurgaon (transclusion) ( links | edit ) User:Sasthana5/sandbox ( links | edit ) User:Dineshswamiin/sandbox ( links | edit ) User talk:Iamabhimanyupoddar ( links | edit ) User talk:202.52.150.20 ( links | edit ) User talk:BISITM.gurgaon ( links | edit ) User talk:150.242.173.112 ( links | edit ) User talk:2409:4050:E96:A7A6:0:0:DC8B:3413 ( links | edit ) User talk:223.225.50.12 ( links | edit ) Wikipedia:WikiProject Spam/LinkReports/bisitm.com ( links | edit ) Talk:Cyber City Gurgaon (transclusion) ( links | edit ) Talk:Cyber City Gurgaon/Archives/2012 ( links | edit ) Talk:Cyber City Gurgaon/Archives/2015 ( links | edit ) User talk:223.190.83.28 ( links | edit ) Wikipedia:WikiProject Spam/LinkReports/halobee.com ( links | edit ) Wikipedia:WikiProject Spam/Local/halobee.com ( links | edit ) View ( previous 50 | next 50 ) ( 20 | 50 | 100 | 250 | 500 ) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Cyber_City_Gurgaon " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Pages that link to "Cyber City Gurgaon" Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Cyber_City_Gurgaon
Related changes - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Related changes Help Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General Atom Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide ← Cyber City Gurgaon Enter a page name to see changes on pages linked to or from that page. (To see members of a category, enter Category:Name of category). Changes to pages on your Watchlist are shown in bold with a green bullet . See more at Help:Related changes . Recent changes options Show last 50 | 100 | 250 | 500 changes in last 1 | 3 | 7 | 14 | 30 days Hide registered users | Hide unregistered users | Hide my edits | Show bots | Hide minor edits | Show page categorization | Show Wikidata | Hide probably good edits Show new changes starting from 10:09, 10 March 2025 Namespace: all (Article) Talk User User talk Wikipedia Wikipedia talk File File talk MediaWiki MediaWiki talk Template Template talk Help Help talk Category Category talk Portal Portal talk Draft Draft talk MOS MOS talk TimedText TimedText talk Module Module talk Event Event talk Invert selection Associated namespace Tag filter: 2017 wikitext editor ABBA [1.0] Addition of protection template to non-protected page Advanced mobile edit Android app edit AntiVandal App AI assist App description add App description change App description translate App full source App image add infobox App image add top App rollback App section source App select source App suggested edit App talk reply App talk source App talk topic App undo Automatic insertion of extraneous formatting AWB Barnsworth [1.0] blanking Blanking Bot in trial bup 2 [1.0] campaign-external-machine-translation canned edit summary categories removed CD changing height and/or weight changing time or duration Citation bot [1.1.0] Citation Bot [1.2.0] citing a blog or free web host COI template removed Community Configuration condition limit reached content model change content sourced to vanity press contentious topics alert ContentTranslation contenttranslation-needcheck ContentTranslation2 ContentTranslation: High unmodified machine translation usage Contest or editathon copyright violation template removed Correct typos in one click [1.0] Correct typos in one click [1.1] CropTool [1.2] CropTool [1.4] CropTool [1.5] CropTool testing [1.0] DAB Mechanic [1.0] dashboard-testing.wikiedu.org [1.0] dashboard-testing.wikiedu.org [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [1.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [1.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org [2.3] dashboard.wikiedu.org account-creation dev [1.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.11] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.2] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.3] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.4] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.5] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.7] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4.8] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [0.4] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [2.0] dashboard.wikiedu.org dev [2.1] demo-oauthratelimiter-3 [1.0] Deputy DiBabel [1.2] Disambiguation links added disambiguation template removed discussiontools (hidden tag) discussiontools-added-comment (hidden tag) discussiontools-source (hidden tag) discussiontools-source-enhanced (hidden tag) discussiontools-visual (hidden tag) Dispenser [1.0] Dispenser [2.4] Downstream Pull [0.1] draft or userpage link Edit Check (references) activated Edit Check (references) declined (irrelevant) Edit Check (references) declined (other) Edit Check (references) declined (uncertain) editcheck-newcontent (hidden tag) editcheck-newreference (hidden tag) editcheck-references (hidden tag) editProtectedHelper Education Dashboard development - awight [1.0] English Wikipedia Account Creation Assistance Tool [2.0] excessive whitespace External link added to disambiguation page extraneous markup featured article or good article template added or removed Find link [1.0] Fixed lint errors Fountain [0.1.3] Fountain Test [1.1] gabinaluz+app@gmail.com [1.0] harv-error Huggle IABot [1.0] IABotManagementConsole (Personal Debug Consumer) [1.0] IABotManagementConsole [1.1] IABotManagementConsole [1.2] IABotManagementConsole [1.3] image template modification Incorrectly formatted external link or image Invalid TimedText edit iOS app edit Jonathan_at_WINTR_7 [1.0] JWB KenBurnsEffect tool [1.1] large non-free file large plot addition large unwikified new article LCA Tools [1.0] LCA Tools [1.5] Localhost [1.0] Manual revert Mass pronoun change MassMessage delivery massmove Medha_Bansal_intern_at_WikiEduDashboard [1.0] mentor list change Mentorship module question Mentorship panel question missing file added missingredirectsproject [1.0] Mobile app edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit Modified by FileImporter moveToDraft MTC-Web for local dev/testing [1.0] MTCWeb-Dev [1.0] New redirect New topic New user adding protection template new user modifying archives new user moving page out of userspace Newcomer task Newcomer task: copyedit Newcomer task: expand Newcomer task: links Newcomer task: references Newcomer task: update Non-autoconfirmed user rapidly reverting edits non-English content nowiki added Nuke OAbot [1.0] OAbot [2.1] OAuth Uploader [1.0] outreachdashboard.wmflabs.org [2.0] outreachdashboard.wmflabs.org [2.1] pageswap GUI PageTriage Parliament edits PAWS [1.2] PAWS [2.1] paws [2.2] possible autobiography or conflict of interest possible birth or death date change possible BLP issue or vandalism possible conflict of interest possible cut and paste move or recreation possible MOS:ETHNICITY violation Possible self promotion in user or draftspace Possible self promotion in userspace possible unreferenced addition to BLP possible userspace spam possible vandalism possible WP:BLPCRIME issue possibly inaccurate edit summary ProveIt edit QuickCategories [1.0] QuickCategories [1.1] Recreated Redirect target changed reference list removal references removed removal of Category:Living People Removed redirect repeated addition of external links by non-autoconfirmed user Replaced Reply Reverted reverting anti-vandal bot review edit Rollback RW section blanking self-renaming or bad user talk move Shortdesc helper shouting Snuggle (English Wikipedia) [1.0.0] speedy deletion template removed STiki Suggested: add links Suggestor [0.0.1] SWViewer [1.0] SWViewer [1.2] SWViewer [1.3] SWViewer [1.4] SWViewer [1.6] Takedown Tools [1.0] Talk banner shell conversion talk page blanking Text added at end of page TorProxy [0.1] TorProxy [0.2] Twinkle U.S. Congress edit Ultraviolet Undo Unexpected #REDIRECT markup unsourced AFC submission use of deprecated (unreliable) source use of predatory open access journal User Analysis Tool [1.0] very short new article Visual edit Visual edit: Check Visual edit: Switched Weekipedia v3 [1.0] Weekipedia2 [1.0] wiki-file-transfer [1.0] wikieditor (hidden tag) wikiedu Assignment Wizard 2.0 Teting [1.0] wikiedu Assignment Wizard [1.0] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard (testing) [0.99] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard [1.0.1] wikiedu.org Assignment Design Wizard [1.0.2] WikiEduDashboard NTDB [1.2] WikiEduDashboard NTDB3 [1.0] WikiEduDashboard NTDB4 [1.0] WikiEduDashboard NTDB5 [1.0] WikiEduWizard NTDB [1.2] Wikifile Transfer [1.0] Wikifile Transfer [2.0] Wikifile Transfer [4.0] Wikifile Transfer [5.0] WikiLeaks wikilinks removed WikiLoop Battlefield WikiLoop Battlefield Dev Local [2.0.0] WikiLoop Battlefield on WMF Cloud VPS [1.0] WikiLoop Battlefield Prod [2.2.1-beta] WikiLoop DoubleCheck WMF Cloud VPS (2020-07-13 version) [4.1.0] WikiLove WINTR Wikiedu Dashboard Local Test 3 [1.0] WINTR Wikiedu Wizard Local Test [1.0] WPCleaner yabbr [1.3] Invert selection Page name: Show changes to pages linked to the given page instead List of abbreviations ( help ): D Edit made at Wiki d ata r Edit flagged by O R ES N N ew page m M inor edit b B ot edit (±123) Page byte size change Temporarily watched page 9 March 2025 diff hist India 23:43 −695 Nikkimaria talk contribs (ce) diff hist Nando's 16:50 −9 Roxy the dog talk contribs (Restored revision 1279460930 by Jprg1966 ( talk )) Tags : Twinkle Undo diff hist Nando's 16:44 +9 92.19.71.99 talk (Added content) Tags : Reverted Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist India 13:34 −79 Fowler&fowler talk contribs ( → Etymology : restoring the edits of NM in etymology, ty for those) diff hist India 13:29 −33 Fowler&fowler talk contribs ( → top : restoring the useful edits of NikkiMaria in the lead) diff hist India 13:19 +1,667 Fowler&fowler talk contribs (Restored revision 1279478480 by EarthDude ( talk ): Sorry, NikkiMaria, we are trying to reduce the lead, but it cant be done in this fashion.  Editors have spent a lot of time fashioning the lead. Again, apologies.  We'll fix it very soon.) Tags : Twinkle Undo diff hist Mumbai 07:32 −25 SomePacifisticGuy talk contribs ( → Independent India : The 105 martyrs had been protesting for the Samyukta Maharashtra Movement, which has already been mentioned above) Tag : Visual edit diff hist Haldiram's 06:16 0 Aniruddhaphatak1 talk contribs Tag : Visual edit diff hist Mumbai 05:11 +33 NovaKey234 talk contribs (Internal links) Tags : Visual edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist India 02:51 −1,667 Nikkimaria talk contribs (ce) Tag : Reverted diff hist m Domino's 02:07 −1 Steel1943 talk contribs ( → Franchises : MOS:REFSPACE (remove space between reference tags), replaced: ref> <ref → ref><ref) Tag : AWB diff hist m Kia 02:06 −1 Steel1943 talk contribs ( → Later development : MOS:REFSPACE (remove space between reference tags), replaced: ref> <ref → ref><ref) Tag : AWB 8 March 2025 diff hist m India 20:23 −5 EarthDude talk contribs (Removed pm counts, per consensus, and also removed an unnecessary capitalization) Tags : Visual edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit Advanced mobile edit diff hist m India 20:19 −2 EarthDude talk contribs (As per the infobox itself) Tags : Visual edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit Advanced mobile edit diff hist m India 20:17 +1 EarthDude talk contribs (Small grammatical fix) Tags : Visual edit Mobile edit Mobile web edit Advanced mobile edit diff hist m Nando's 18:24 −1 Jprg1966 talk contribs ( → History ) diff hist m Nando's 18:23 −2 Jprg1966 talk contribs ( → United States ) diff hist m Nando's 18:22 −1 Jprg1966 talk contribs ( → United Arab Emirates ) diff hist m Pune 17:02 +7 Rodw talk contribs (Disambiguating links to Jangli Maharaj Road (link changed to Jangali Maharaj Road, Pune ) using DisamAssist .) diff hist Geographic coordinate system 13:09 −23 Galaxybeing talk contribs (Reverted 1 pending edit by 2409:40E4:101A:CF00:8000:0:0:0 ( talk ) to last version by Remsense) Tag : Undo diff hist Geographic coordinate system 13:04 +23 2409:40e4:101a:cf00:8000:: talk Tags : Reverted Mobile edit Mobile web edit 7 March 2025 diff hist m Hinjawadi 13:54 +16 Fylindfotberserk talk contribs (Indian English, script -assisted date audit and style fixes per MOS:NUM ) diff hist Nando's 00:25 +8 2601:3c8:437e:89b0:b847:604c:bdc0:5b11 talk Tags : Mobile edit Mobile web edit 5 March 2025 diff hist Module:Disambiguation/templates 21:17 +22 Pppery talk contribs (Update list) diff hist Bandra Kurla Complex 19:34 +171 Nuts5070 talk contribs ( → Accessibility ) diff hist Fortune 500 13:35 +41 Migfab008 talk contribs ( → top : Add {{ Use American English }} tag) Tags : Mobile edit Mobile app edit Android app edit App section source diff hist India 09:58 +566 Cerium4B talk contribs (Reverted 1 edit by Sreein Sreedhar ( talk ): Unexplained removal of sourced content) Tags : Twinkle Undo Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist India 09:47 −566 Sreein Sreedhar talk contribs ( → Cuisine ) Tag : Reverted diff hist Module:Detect singular 07:06 +263 Hike395 talk contribs (when flag is set, parse number and determine plurality from that) 4 March 2025 diff hist m Marks & Spencer 22:57 −191 Salsareans talk contribs (Reverted 1 edit by 86.160.239.169 ( talk ) to last revision by Rodw) Tags : Twinkle Undo Mobile edit Mobile web edit Advanced mobile edit diff hist Marks & Spencer 22:32 +191 86.160.239.169 talk Tags : Reverted Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist Template:Infobox settlement 22:14 +107 Joy talk contribs (set default mapframe marker, allow default mapframe type to be overridden like the rest) diff hist Bandra Kurla Complex 21:01 +45 Nuts5070 talk contribs ( → Accessibility ) diff hist Indira Gandhi International Airport 17:36 0 Fylindfotberserk talk contribs ( MOS:ORDER ) diff hist m Uniqlo 16:57 −7 HolonZeias talk contribs ( → Luxembourg : : It's just "Grand Rue", not "Grand Rue Avenue".) Protection log 15:15 Yamla talk contribs protected Indira Gandhi International Airport [Edit=Require autoconfirmed or confirmed access] (expires 15:15, 4 September 2025) [Move=Require autoconfirmed or confirmed access] (expires 15:15, 4 September 2025) (Persistent block evasion ) ( hist ) diff hist m File:Flag of India.svg 14:37 −157 Shellwood talk contribs (Reverted edit by 2403:A080:C04:7347:4CFF:FBFD:6C99:DD65 ( talk ) to last version by ToBeFree) Tag : Rollback diff hist m Indira Gandhi International Airport 14:32 +9 Fylindfotberserk talk contribs (Indian English, script -assisted date audit and style fixes per MOS:NUM , added source instance) diff hist Indira Gandhi International Airport 14:31 +1,032 Fylindfotberserk talk contribs (restored parts as supported by sources) diff hist File:Flag of India.svg 14:14 +157 2403:a080:c04:7347:4cff:fbfd:6c99:dd65 talk (122) Tags : Reverted Mobile edit Mobile web edit diff hist Indira Gandhi International Airport 14:04 +3,635 Fylindfotberserk talk contribs (Block evasion, sock of User:DisconsolatePutz) diff hist India 12:07 −22 Fowler&fowler talk contribs (Reverted good faith edits by EarthDude ( talk ): Apologies, but caste has  an administrator-supervised lead) Tags : Twinkle Undo diff hist Delhi 11:42 +47 Lova Falk talk contribs (Undid revision 1278754233 by AlphabetSquid ( talk ) Unmotivated removal of a category) Tag : Undo diff hist Pune 11:24 −1 Sreein Sreedhar talk contribs ( → Architecture ) diff hist Delhi 11:20 −47 AlphabetSquid talk contribs (fix) Tags : Reverted Visual edit diff hist Indira Gandhi International Airport 08:00 −3,633 49.195.37.68 talk diff hist Hinjawadi 05:04 −2,013 Vatsmaxed talk contribs ( → Education : WP is not a list) diff hist Hinjawadi 04:57 −305 Vatsmaxed talk contribs ( → Restaurants : WP is not an advertising list) 3 March 2025 diff hist Pune 17:55 +35 Jonathansammy talk contribs ( → Food : copyedit) diff hist Pune 17:53 +173 Jonathansammy talk contribs ( → Food : citations needed) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Cyber_City_Gurgaon " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Related changes Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard
Wikipedia:File upload wizard - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Wikipedia : File upload wizard 64 languages العربية অসমীয়া Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú भोजपुरी Bosanski ChiShona Corsu الدارجة Ελληνικά Esperanto فارسی Français Gagauz 贛語 한국어 Hawaiʻi हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano ქართული Қазақша Ladin Magyar Македонски മലയാളം मराठी مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Нохчийн Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча پښتو Polski Português Qaraqalpaqsha Română සිංහල Slovenščina Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Tagalog தமிழ் తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 粵語 中文 ⵜⴰⵎⴰⵣⵉⵖⵜ ⵜⴰⵏⴰⵡⴰⵢⵜ Edit links Project page Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiversity Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Wikipedia:File Upload Wizard ) Wikimedia file upload wizard Shortcut WP:FUW Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand copyright and the image use policy before proceeding. Upload your own or a freely licensed file Uploads to Wikimedia Commons Upload a non-free file Uploads locally to the English Wikipedia; must comply with the non-free content criteria You do not have JavaScript enabled Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain Special:Upload page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript. You are not currently logged in. Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please log in and then try again. Your account has not become confirmed yet. Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a confirmed account . Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it. You may already be able to upload files on the Wikimedia Commons , but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there. Important note: if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at Wikipedia:Files for upload . In very rare cases an administrator may make your account confirmed manually through a request at Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Confirmed . Step 1: Choose your file File: Choose a file from your computer. Maximum file size: 100 MB. Permitted file types: png, gif, jpg, jpeg, xcf, pdf, mid, mp3, mpeg, mpg, ogg, ogv, opus, svg, djvu, tiff, tif, oga, flac, wav, wave, webm, webp. Step 2: Describe your file Please provide a clear, descriptive name by which your file will be known on Wikipedia. This name must be unique across the whole of Wikipedia, so please make it informative and easy to recognize. It's no problem to use a fairly long name. It may also include spaces, commas and most other punctuation marks. Please also note that file names are case sensitive (with the exception of the first letter). Good: "City of London, skyline from London City Hall, Oct 2008.jpg". Bad : "Skyline.jpg", "DSC0001234.jpg". Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for # < > [ ] | : { } / and ~~~ . Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now. The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use: Titles that consist only of very generic descriptive words (e.g. "Sunset.jpg", "Townhall.jpg") Titles that consist only of a person's first or last name, when that name is likely to be shared by many others (e.g. "John.jpg", "Miller.jpg") Titles that consist of mere numbers, of the kind often produced by digital cameras ("DSC_001234", "IMGP0345"), or random strings like those sometimes found on the web ("30996951316264l.jpg") Existing file . Last uploaded by Example user . A file of this name already exists on Commons! If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases. Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead. If you want to replace the existing file with an uncontroversial, improved version of the same work, please go to Commons and upload it there, not here on the English Wikipedia's local wiki. A file of this name already exists. If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to: No , I don't want to overwrite the existing file. I will choose a different name for my new file instead. Yes , I want to overwrite the existing file. My file is merely a new, improved and uncontentious version of the same work. The old description page, including the source and copyright information, will still be correct for the new version and can remain the same. Yes , I want to overwrite the existing file, and I will use this wizard to add a new description and new source information for it. The previous version was my own, or else I have made sure the previous uploader(s) don't object to this replacement. Please provide a brief description of the contents of this file. This will be stored and displayed as part of the file description page. It is important that other editors are able to understand what this file is about. What does this file show? What is it a photo/diagram/recording of? It will be helpful if you also add a wikilink to the article where you want to use it. Step 3: Provide source and copyright information It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. This is a free work. I can demonstrate that it is legally okay for anybody to use, in Wikipedia and elsewhere, for any purpose. Thank you for offering to upload a free work. Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the Wikimedia Commons .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. Please consider uploading your file on Commons . However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here. Copyright status: This file is entirely my own work. I am the copyright holder. I made this myself, from scratch, without copying or incorporating anybody else's creative work, and I am willing to release it under a free license. Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. Do not use this section for any of the following: a scan or photograph you made of a painting, drawing, printed page or other item originally created by somebody else. The copyright belongs to the original creator, not to you. a screenshot or other kind of capture of a video, computer screen, TV programme or other kind of visual media. a picture you created by modifying or copying some other picture or by combining several preexisting pictures made by somebody else. a picture given to you by somebody else. a picture you found somewhere on the Internet. Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work" will be blocked from editing . Please describe how and when you created this item. How? (e.g.: Where and on what kind of occasion did you take this photo? How did you make this diagram? etc.) Date (please use YYYY-MM-DD format if possible). Publication: Please indicate here if you have previously published this item elsewhere, e.g. on your own website, your Flickr or Facebook account, etc., providing a link. It is important that you place this work under a free license, which will allow everybody else to use it for any purpose, including both commercial and non-commercial purposes, and to modify it. This license will be irrevocable. This file was given to me by its owner. The copyright owner of this file has given it to me for uploading on Wikipedia. I can provide evidence that they have agreed to release it under a free license, for free use by anybody and for any purpose. Please describe who owns this work and how you got it from them. Owner/author: Date of creation: Source: Where did you get the file from? (e.g. available online; was sent to me personally …) Permission: How did you receive the permission? (e.g.: by e-mail, personally, I work for the owner …) The copyright owner has chosen the following license: License: Other: Evidence: The license statement can be found online at: The license agreement has been forwarded to Wikimedia's volunteer response team at "permissions-en@wikimedia.org". OTRS ticket received: The license hasn't yet been forwarded, but I will do so shortly or ask the owner to send it. I haven't got the evidence right now, but I will provide some if requested to do so. Note: files without verifiable permissions may be deleted. You may be better off obtaining proof of permission first. This file is from a free published source. I took it from a website or other published source, where its author has explicitly placed it under a free license, allowing free re-use by anybody. Use this only if there is an explicit licensing statement in the source. The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this. If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please do not upload the file . Author/owner: Date of creation: Source: For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) The copyright owner has chosen the following license for this file: License: Other: Evidence: Provide a link to where the author explicitly says that the file is released under a free license. (if not visible on the source page itself). This work is so old its copyright has expired This is an old photograph, or a photographic reproduction of an old painting, drawing, etc. I can provide enough information about its author and provenance to prove that it is old enough for its copyright to have expired. It is now legally in the Public Domain . Original author: Please name the original author of this work. Lifetime: Specify date of death, if applicable to public domain status. In many cases, we need to be certain the author died before a certain year, in many cases before 1930. Original publication: Provide as much information as possible about the original time and place of publication of this work. For print publications: provide full bibliographic information. Date of publication: Provide date of first publication, and date of creation if different. Immediate source: State exactly where you found this file. For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) Public Domain status: This work is free of all copyrights because: It was created and first published before 1930 and is therefore in the Public Domain in the US. It was first published outside the US , and it was in the Public Domain in its country of origin by the " URAA date ". For most countries, this means the author died 70 years before 1 January 1996, i.e. before 1926. Please look up the copyright rules for the specific country at [1] . It was first published in the US before 1989 , and its copyright expired because it was published without a copyright notice and/or without the necessary copyright registration. Please look up the exact rules at [2] . Its copyright expired for some other reason. [Please explain below]. Explanation: Please provide any evidence necessary to verify the public domain status. This file is in the Public Domain for some other reason. I can demonstrate that this work is legally in the Public Domain, i.e. nobody owns any copyrights on it. This may be for a variety of reasons, for instance because it was created by the US Federal Government, or because it is too simple to attract any copyright. Public Domain means that nobody owns any copyrights on this work. It does not mean simply that it is freely viewable somewhere on the web or that it has been widely used by others. This is not for images you simply found somewhere on the web. Most images on the web are under copyright and belong to somebody, even if you believe the owner won't care about that copyright. If it is in the public domain, you must be able to point to an actual law that makes it so. If you can't point to such a law but merely found this image somewhere, then please do not upload it. Author: Please name the original author of this work. Source: State exactly where you found this file. For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) Date of creation: Public Domain status: This work is free of all copyrights because: It was created by an agency of the US Federal Government. This does not apply to most US state and local agencies , nor to governments of other countries! It is an official governmental item, such as a flag, state emblem, banknote or postage stamp, from a country where such items are exempt from copyright according to local law. This does not apply to all countries, nor does it usually apply to all publications! (For instance, it usually doesn't apply to simple publicity photographs published on a governmental website.)  Please look up the copyright rules for the specific country in question. If the country does not have an exemption rule that applies to this item, go on with the section for " non-free copyrighted works " below. Explanation: Add any explanation or evidence necessary to substantiate your statement above. Cite and provide a link to the relevant law if possible. It is too simple to be eligible for copyright. This typically applies only to graphics that consist solely of simple geometric shapes and/or a few letters or words, or to items such as mathematical or chemical formulae. It may apply to some very simple logos that do not contain complex pictorial elements. It never applies to photographs! It is in the Public Domain for some other reason. Explanation: This is a copyrighted, non-free work, but I believe it is Fair Use. I have read the Wikipedia rules on Non-Free Content , and I am prepared to explain how the use of this file will meet the criteria set out there. Please remember that you will need to demonstrate that: The file will serve an important function in a particular article; ( NFCC8 ) It cannot be replaced by any other, free illustration that might yet be created; ( NFCC1 ) Its use does not negatively affect the commercial interests of its owner ( NFCC2 ) There will not be more non-free material used than necessary. ( NFCC3 ) This file will be used in the following article: Enter the name of exactly one Wikipedia article, without the [[...]] brackets and without the "http://en.wikipedia.org/..." URL code. It has to be an actual article, not a talkpage, template, user page, etc. If you plan to use the file in more than one article, please name only one of them here. Then, after uploading, open the image description page for editing and add your separate explanations for each additional article manually. Example – article okay. This article doesn't exist! The article Example could not be found. Please check the spelling, and make sure you enter the name of an existing article in which you will include this file. If this is an article you are only planning to write, please write it first and upload the file afterwards. This is not an actual encyclopedia article! The page Example is not in the main article namespace. Non-free files can only be used in mainspace article pages, not on a user page, talk page, template, etc. Please upload this file only if it is going to be used in an actual article. If this page is an article draft in your user space, we're sorry, but we must ask you to wait until the page is ready and has been moved into mainspace, and only upload the file after that. This is a disambiguation page! The page Example is not a real article, but a disambiguation page pointing to a number of other pages. Please check and enter the exact title of the actual target article you meant. Non-free use rationale This image is the object of discussion in an article. This is a copyrighted artwork or photograph, and the image itself is the topic of discussion in the article. The discussion is about the photograph or painting as such, as a creative work, not just about the thing or person it shows. Which of these options describes this item best? Who created this work? Author/owner: Date: Source: State exactly where you found this file. For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) Usage: The article as a whole is dedicated specifically to a discussion of this particular photograph/painting. (It is not just about the person or thing shown in the picture.) There is a substantial amount of encyclopedic discussion of this particular photograph/painting ( not just about the person or thing shown in it) in this article. The illustration is specifically needed to support the following point: If neither of these two statements applies, then please do not upload this image. This section is not for images used merely to illustrate an article about a person or thing, showing what that person or thing look like. This is a depiction of a copyrighted three-dimensional work or building , which is the object of discussion in an article. This is a photograph or other kind of depiction of a copyrighted, three-dimensional creative work, such as a statue or work of architecture. The article contains a discussion of that work which requires illustration. The photograph as such is free, or was provided by the creator of the sculpture. Which of these options describes this item best? First describe who created the original work depicted: Creator: Date: Usage: The article as a whole is dedicated specifically to this work. There is a substantial amount of encyclopedic discussion of this work in this article. The illustration is specifically needed to support the following point: Now describe who created the image : Author: Date: Source: State exactly where you found this file. For web sources: please provide a link to the html web page where the file can be found ("http://... .html"), not a direct link to the image file itself ("http://... .jpg"). For print sources: provide full bibliographic information (author, title, publisher, year, page, etc.) Image status The image was created and published by the same author who also holds the rights to the original object, and no alternative depiction could be suitably created. The author of the image has released the photographic work under a free license, or it is in the public domain: Name the license or describe the public domain status, adding any necessary evidence to make the licensing status verifiable. This is an excerpt from a copyrighted work . This is an excerpt from a copyrighted work, e.g. a screenshot from a movie or TV programme, a panel from a comic, or a sound sample from a song. Its presence is needed to support a piece of explicit critical discussion in an article related to that work or its creator(s). Which of these options describes this item best? Author: (author / copyright owner of the original work) Date of creation: Source: (where exactly did you get this file from?) Please explain what exactly in the article it is that you want to illustrate with this. Typically, the illustration must be used to support some specific issue of discussion in the article. Please be concrete and specific. Don't just copy boilerplate statements from elsewhere. State clearly, in your own words, what this particular file will be doing in this particular article. If necessary, please explain why this purpose cannot be achieved through text alone. This is the official cover art of a work. This is the cover or dustjacket of a book, the cover of a CD or video, the official release poster of a movie, or a comparable item. It will be included as that work's primary means of visual identification, at the top of the article about the book, movie, etc. in question. Note: If you plan to use it for any other purpose than this, please tick the box for "other non-free work" below. Which of these options describes this item best? Author: (author / copyright owner of the original work) Date of publication: Source: (where exactly did you get this file from?) This image will be shown as a primary means of visual identification at the top of the article dedicated to the work in question. A standard fair use rationale will be added that matches this type of use. If you plan to use the file for any purpose other than this, please do not use this section, but the one labelled "other type of non-free work" below. This is a logo of an organization , company, brand, etc. This is an official logo of an entity that is the subject of a Wikipedia article. It will be included as that entity's primary means of visual identification, at the top of the article in question. Note: If you plan to use it for any other purpose than this, please tick the box for "other non-free work" below. Which of these options describes this item best? Source: (where exactly did you get this file from?) This image will be shown as a primary means of visual identification at the top of the article dedicated to the entity in question. A standard fair use rationale will be added that matches this type of use. If you plan to use the file for any purpose other than this, please do not use this section, but the one labelled "other type of non-free work" below. This is a historical portrait of a person no longer alive. This is a historical photograph or other depiction of a person who is no longer alive. It will be used as the primary means of visual identification of that person in the article about them. Deceased since: (This type of file can typically only be used with people who are no longer alive.) Author: (Who made this image?) Original publication: (Where, when and how was this image first published?) Date of publication: Source: (Where exactly did you get this file from?) This image will be shown as a primary means of visual identification at the top of the article dedicated to the person in question. A standard fair use rationale will be added that matches this type of use. If you plan to use the file for any purpose other than this, please do not use this section, but the one labelled "other type of non-free work" below. Please explain why a free alternative to this image cannot be found. For subjects who died recently: have you made a reasonable effort to find people who might possess photographs of this person and might be willing to release one? For subjects who lived in the early-to-mid 20th century: have you considered if there might be an older photograph that has fallen in the public domain? Please explain why you are confident that our use of the file will not harm any commercial opportunities of its owner. We will typically not use a file if its owner has a potential commercial interest in its use, and if our use of it would compete with its original market role. This is some other kind of non-free work that I believe is legitimate Fair Use. This is a copyrighted work whose use does not fall into any of the classes above. I have read the Wikipedia rules on Non-free content , and I will explain how this file meets all of the criteria set out there. Which of these options describes this item best? Author: (Who made this image?) Original publication: (Where, when and how was this image first published?) Date of publication: Source: (Where exactly did you get this file from?) Please explain what exact purpose this file will serve in the article. Please be concrete and specific. Don't just copy boilerplate statements from elsewhere. State clearly, in your own words, what this particular file will be doing in this particular article. Your explanation must make it clear why the article would be significantly worse off without this file. Please explain why this purpose could not be served by text alone. Please explain why this purpose could not be served with an alternative, free illustration that could yet be found or created. For a file to be deemed replaceable, it is not necessary that a suitable replacement already exists. Even if it is merely possible that a replacement could be created, we will not use the non-free file. Please explain why you are confident that our use of the file will not harm any commercial opportunities of its owner. We will typically not use a file if its owner has a potential commercial interest in its use, and if our use of it would compete with its original market role. Remember that the use of non-free files must be minimal. This can mean several things: Don't use more files per article/topic than necessary Don't use the same file in more articles than necessary Don't use larger excerpts of a single work than necessary Don't use images of higher resolution than necessary In view of this, please explain how the use of this file will be minimal. Special source and license conditions (optional) Any further relevant information about this file? Edit summary: A brief description of why you are overwriting this file. This will not be saved on the description page, but will be shown in its edit history. Yes , I want this file to be immediately available in all Wikimedia projects, in all languages. I will upload it on the Wikimedia Commons . Clicking this button will redirect you to a page on Commons. This will only work if you are already logged in there, which is likely the case if you have a unified account . Check here to see if you are logged in. No , I want to upload this file locally. This way it can be used only on the English Wikipedia. We urge you to upload it to the Commons unless there is a very good reason for it to stay local. Often such local files are copied to the Commons for use elsewhere and deleted locally, requiring extra work for other volunteers. If you do not want your file to be copied to Commons and deleted locally, consider adding the {{ Keep local }} tag. Reset this form and start over. This file doesn't fit either of the categories above. This file doesn't seem to fall into either of the classes above, or I am not certain what its status is. I found this file somewhere, but I don't really know who made it or who owns it. Well, we're very sorry, but if you're not sure about this file's copyright status, or if it doesn't fit into any of the groups above, then: Please don't upload it. Really, please don't. Even if you think it would make for a great addition to an article. We really take these copyright rules very seriously on Wikipedia. Note that media is assumed to be fully-copyrighted unless shown otherwise; the burden is on the uploader. In particular, please don't upload: any file you simply found on some website, without knowing who its author or copyright owner is. any file you found somewhere, even if you have good reason to believe it has a copyright owner who would not mind us using it, but you don't have an explicit licensing statement from them. any file that was released for publicity purposes by its owners but doesn't have a fully-free license for free re-use for all purposes. any file credited to a commercial image agency, such as Reuters, AP or Getty Images. Such files normally cannot be used even under the "Fair Use" rules, except in rare cases. any file that is licensed for use exclusively on Wikipedia, or is free except that the free license excludes commercial use. If you are in any doubt, please ask some experienced editors for advice before uploading. People will be happy to assist you at Wikipedia:Media copyright questions . Thank you. Preview (test) This is the data that will be submitted to upload: Filename: Edit summary: Text: Upload in process Your file is being uploaded. This might take a minute or two, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your internet connection. Once uploading is completed, you will find your new file at this link: File:Example.jpg File successfully uploaded Your file has been uploaded successfully and can now be found here: File:Example.jpg Please follow the link and check that the image description page has all the information you meant to include. If you want to change the description, just go to the image page, click the "edit" tab at the top of the page and edit just as you would edit any other page. Do not go through this upload form again, unless you want to replace the actual file with a new version. To insert this file into an article, you may want to use code similar to the following: [[File: Example.jpg |thumb|right|insert a caption here]] If you wish to make a link to the file in text, without actually showing the image, for instance when discussing the image on a talk page, you can use the following (mark the ":" after the initial brackets!): [[:File: Example.jpg ]] See Wikipedia:Picture tutorial for more detailed help on how to insert and position images in pages. Thank you for using the File Upload Wizard. Please leave your feedback, comments, bug reports or suggestions on the talk page . Uploading media files Commons Wikipedia Commons Wizard (recommended for free files) Plain form for Commons (experienced users) Old form Files for upload process (recommended for new users) Plain form for local uploads (experienced users) Old guided form Help and guidelines Ask copyright questions Image use policy Non-free content This wizard Documentation Script Discuss Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard&oldid=1229064311 " This page was last edited on 14 June 2024, at 17:19 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Wikipedia : File upload wizard 64 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This is the current revision of this page, as edited by VideshiBhaktNRI ( talk | contribs ) at 14:27, 25 November 2024 ( → Gallery ) . The present address (URL) is a permanent link to this version. Revision as of 14:27, 25 November 2024 by VideshiBhaktNRI ( talk | contribs ) ( → Gallery ) ( diff ) ← Previous revision | Latest revision (diff) | Newer revision → (diff) Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&action=info
Information for "Cyber City Gurgaon" - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Information for "Cyber City Gurgaon" Add languages Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Help Contents Basic information Page protection Edit history Page properties External tools Basic information Display title Cyber City Gurgaon Default sort key Cyber City Gurgaon Page length (in bytes) 8,522 Namespace ID 0 Page ID 8966238 Page content language en - English Page content model wikitext Indexing by robots Allowed Number of page watchers Fewer than 30 watchers Number of redirects to this page 1 Counted as a content page Yes Wikidata item ID Q24905663 Local description Corporate park in Haryana, India Central description corporate park in Gurgaon, India Page image Page views in the past 30 days 3,557 Page protection Edit Allow all users (no expiry set) Move Allow all users (no expiry set) View the protection log for this page. Edit history Page creator Manscher ( talk | contribs ) Date of page creation 07:22, 17 January 2007 Latest editor VideshiBhaktNRI ( talk | contribs ) Date of latest edit 14:27, 25 November 2024 Total number of edits 219 Recent number of edits (within past 30 days) 0 Recent number of distinct authors 0 Page properties Hidden categories (10) This page is a member of 10 hidden categories ( help ) : Category:All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Category:Articles with short description Category:Coordinates on Wikidata Category:Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Category:Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Category:Pages using infobox settlement with no map Category:Pages using the Kartographer extension Category:Short description is different from Wikidata Category:Use Indian English from December 2017 Category:Use dmy dates from December 2017 Transcluded templates (76) Pages transcluded onto the current version of this page ( help ) : Template:Both ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Cite news ( view source ) (protected) Template:Cite web ( view source ) (protected) Template:Convert ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Coord ( view source ) (protected) Template:DMCA ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Dated maintenance category ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:FULLROOTPAGENAME ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Flag ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:If empty ( view source ) (protected) Template:Infobox ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Main other ( view source ) (protected) Template:Ns has subpages ( view source ) (protected) Template:Pagetype ( view source ) (protected) Template:Reflist ( view source ) (protected) Template:Reflist/styles.css ( view source ) (protected) Template:SDcat ( view source ) (protected) Template:Short description ( view source ) (protected) Template:Short description/lowercasecheck ( view source ) (protected) Template:Template other ( view source ) (protected) Template:Use dmy dates ( view source ) (template editor protected) Template:Yesno ( view source ) (protected) Module:Arguments ( view source ) (protected) Module:Check for unknown parameters ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1 ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/COinS ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/Configuration ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/Date validation ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/Identifiers ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/Utilities ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/Whitelist ( view source ) (protected) Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css ( view source ) (protected) Module:Convert ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Convert/data ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Convert/text ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:If empty ( view source ) (protected) Module:Infobox ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Infobox/styles.css ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:InfoboxImage ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Infobox mapframe ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Mapframe ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:Ns has subpages ( view source ) (protected) Module:Pagetype ( view source ) (protected) Module:Pagetype/config ( view source ) (protected) Module:Plain text ( view source ) (template editor protected) Module:SDcat ( view source ) (protected) Module:String ( view source ) (protected) Module:TableTools ( view source ) (protected) Module:Unsubst ( view source ) (protected) Module:Yesno ( view source ) (protected) This list may be incomplete. Wikidata entities used in this page Cyber City, Gurgaon Title Description: en Miscellaneous (e.g. aliases, entity existence) Statement: P625 Sitelink Statement: P402 External tools Revision history search Revision history statistics Edits by user Page view statistics WikiChecker Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Information for "Cyber City Gurgaon" Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&id=1259497143&wpFormIdentifier=titleform
Cite This Page - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Cite This Page Help English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide Contents APA MLA MHRA Chicago CSE Bluebook AMA BibTeX wiki IMPORTANT NOTE: Most educators and professionals do not consider it appropriate to use tertiary sources such as encyclopedias as a sole source for any information—citing an encyclopedia as an important reference in footnotes or bibliographies may result in censure or a failing grade.   Wikipedia articles should be used for background information, as a reference for correct terminology and search terms, and as a starting point for further research. As with any community-built reference, there is a possibility for error in Wikipedia's content—please check your facts against multiple sources and read our disclaimers for more information. Bibliographic details for "Cyber City Gurgaon" Page name: Cyber City Gurgaon Author: Wikipedia contributors Publisher: Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia . Date of last revision: 25 November 2024 14:27 UTC Date retrieved: 10 March 2025 10:10 UTC Permanent link: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 Primary contributors: revision history statistics Page Version ID: 1259497143 Please remember to check your manual of style, standards guide or instructor's guidelines for the exact syntax to suit your needs.  For more detailed advice, see Citing Wikipedia . Citation styles  for "Cyber City Gurgaon" APA style Wikipedia contributors. (2024, November 25). Cyber City Gurgaon. In Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia . Retrieved 10:10, March 10, 2025, from https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 MLA Style Manual Wikipedia contributors. "Cyber City Gurgaon." Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia . Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia, 25 Nov. 2024. Web. 10 Mar. 2025. MHRA style Wikipedia contributors, 'Cyber City Gurgaon', Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia, 25 November 2024, 14:27 UTC, < https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 > [accessed 10 March 2025] Chicago style Wikipedia contributors, "Cyber City Gurgaon," Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 (accessed March 10, 2025). CBE/CSE style Wikipedia contributors. Cyber City Gurgaon [Internet].  Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia;  2024 Nov 25, 14:27 UTC [cited 2025 Mar 10].  Available from: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 . Bluebook style Cyber City Gurgaon, https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 (last visited Mar. 10, 2025). AMA style Wikipedia contributors. Cyber City Gurgaon. Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. November 25, 2024, 14:27 UTC. Available at: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 . Accessed March 10, 2025. BibTeX entry @misc{ enwiki:1259497143,
    author = "{Wikipedia contributors}",
    title = "Cyber City Gurgaon --- {Wikipedia}{,} The Free Encyclopedia",
    year = "2024",
    url = "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143",
    note = "[Online; accessed 10-March-2025]"
  } When using the LaTeX package url ( \usepackage{url} somewhere in the preamble), which tends to give much more nicely formatted web addresses, the following may be preferred: @misc{ enwiki:1259497143,
    author = "{Wikipedia contributors}",
    title = "Cyber City Gurgaon --- {Wikipedia}{,} The Free Encyclopedia",
    year = "2024",
    howpublished = "\url{https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143}",
    note = "[Online; accessed 10-March-2025]"
  } Wikipedia talk pages Markup [[Cyber City Gurgaon]] ([[Special:Permalink/1259497143|this version]]) Result Cyber City Gurgaon ( this version ) Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:CiteThisPage " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Cite This Page Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FCyber_City_Gurgaon
URL Shortener - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk URL Shortener Help English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Upload file Printable version Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide Paste your long URL here Shorten Links to the following domains may be shortened: *.wikipedia.org , *.wiktionary.org , *.wikibooks.org , *.wikinews.org , *.wikiquote.org , *.wikisource.org , *.wikiversity.org , *.wikivoyage.org , *.wikimedia.org , *.wikidata.org , *.wikifunctions.org and *.mediawiki.org . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:UrlShortener " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search URL Shortener Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FCyber_City_Gurgaon
QR Code Generator - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk QR Code Generator Help English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide URL: Submit Links to the following domains may be shortened: *.wikipedia.org , *.wiktionary.org , *.wikibooks.org , *.wikinews.org , *.wikiquote.org , *.wikisource.org , *.wikiversity.org , *.wikivoyage.org , *.wikimedia.org , *.wikidata.org , *.wikifunctions.org and *.mediawiki.org . Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:QrCode " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search QR Code Generator Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&action=show-download-screen
Download as PDF - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Download as PDF English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide Cyber City Gurgaon Download as PDF Cyber_City_Gurgaon.pdf Download Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:DownloadAsPdf " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Download as PDF Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&printable=yes
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia The printable version is no longer supported and may have rendering errors. Please update your browser bookmarks and please use the default browser print function instead. Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system
Geographic coordinate system - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Latitude and longitude 3 Geodetic datum 4 Length of a degree 5 Alternative encodings 6 See also 7 Notes 8 References Toggle References subsection 8.1 Sources 9 Further reading 10 External links Toggle the table of contents Geographic coordinate system 169 languages Acèh Адыгэбзэ Afrikaans Alemannisch አማርኛ Аԥсшәа العربية Aragonés Arpetan অসমীয়া Asturianu अवधी Avañe'ẽ Авар Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه Basa Bali বাংলা 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú Basa Banyumasan Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Bikol Central Български Boarisch Bosanski Brezhoneg Буряад Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština ChiShona Cymraeg Dansk الدارجة Deutsch Dolnoserbski डोटेली Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Estremeñu Euskara فارسی Français Frysk Furlan Gaeilge Gaelg Gàidhlig Galego ГӀалгӀай ગુજરાતી 客家語 / Hak-kâ-ngî 한국어 Hausa Հայերեն हिन्दी Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Bahasa Hulontalo Igbo Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Ирон Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული Қазақша Kiswahili Kurdî Кыргызча ລາວ Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Ligure Lombard Magyar मैथिली Македонски Malagasy മലയാളം मराठी მარგალური مصرى مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau 閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands Nedersaksies नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Napulitano Нохчийн Norsk bokmål Occitan Олык марий ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Pälzisch پنجابی ပအိုဝ်ႏဘာႏသာႏ پښتو Piemontèis Plattdüütsch Polski Português Qaraqalpaqsha Română Runa Simi Русский Саха тыла संस्कृतम् Sardu Scots Sesotho sa Leboa Setswana Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina Ślůnski Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча / tatarça တႆး తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Удмурт Українська اردو Vèneto Tiếng Việt Volapük Võro West-Vlams Winaray 吴语 ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Checked From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Page version status This is an accepted version of this page This is the latest accepted revision , reviewed on 9 March 2025 . System to specify locations on Earth For broader coverage of this topic, see Spatial reference system . Longitude lines are perpendicular to and latitude lines are parallel to the Equator. Geodesy Fundamentals Geodesy Geodynamics Geomatics History Concepts Geographical distance Geoid Figure of the Earth ( radius and circumference ) Geodetic coordinates Geodetic datum Geodesic Horizontal position representation Latitude / Longitude Map projection Reference ellipsoid Satellite geodesy Spatial reference system Spatial relations Vertical positions Technologies Global Nav. Sat. Systems (GNSSs) Global Pos. System (GPS) GLONASS (Russia) BeiDou (BDS) (China) Galileo (Europe) NAVIC (India) Quasi-Zenith Sat. Sys. (QZSS) (Japan) Discrete Global Grid and Geocoding Standards (history) NGVD 29 Sea Level Datum 1929 OSGB36 Ordnance Survey Great Britain 1936 SK-42 Systema Koordinat 1942 goda ED50 European Datum 1950 SAD69 South American Datum 1969 GRS 80 Geodetic Reference System 1980 ISO 6709 Geographic point coord. 1983 NAD 83 North American Datum 1983 WGS 84 World Geodetic System 1984 NAVD 88 N. American Vertical Datum 1988 ETRS89 European Terrestrial Ref. Sys. 1989 GCJ-02 Chinese obfuscated datum 2002 Geo URI Internet link to a point  2010 International Terrestrial Reference System Spatial Reference System Identifier (SRID) Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) v t e A geographic coordinate system ( GCS ) is a spherical or geodetic coordinate system for measuring and communicating positions directly on Earth as latitude and longitude . [ 1 ] It is the simplest, oldest and most widely used type of the various spatial reference systems that are in use, and forms the basis for most others. Although latitude and longitude form a coordinate tuple like a cartesian coordinate system , the geographic coordinate system is not cartesian because the measurements are angles and are not on a planar surface. [ 2 ] A full GCS specification, such as those listed in the EPSG and ISO 19111 standards, also includes a choice of geodetic datum (including an Earth ellipsoid ), as different datums will yield different latitude and longitude values for the same location. [ 3 ] History [ edit ] See also: History of geodesy The invention of a geographic coordinate system is generally credited to Eratosthenes of Cyrene , who composed his now-lost Geography at the Library of Alexandria in the 3rd century BC. [ 4 ] A century later, Hipparchus of Nicaea improved on this system by determining latitude from stellar measurements rather than solar altitude and determining longitude by timings of lunar eclipses , rather than dead reckoning . In the 1st or 2nd century, Marinus of Tyre compiled an extensive gazetteer and mathematically plotted world map using coordinates measured east from a prime meridian at the westernmost known land, designated the Fortunate Isles , off the coast of western Africa around the Canary or Cape Verde Islands , and measured north or south of the island of Rhodes off Asia Minor . Ptolemy credited him with the full adoption of longitude and latitude, rather than measuring latitude in terms of the length of the midsummer day. [ 5 ] Ptolemy's 2nd-century Geography used the same prime meridian but measured latitude from the Equator instead. After their work was translated into Arabic in the 9th century, Al-Khwārizmī 's Book of the Description of the Earth corrected Marinus' and Ptolemy's errors regarding the length of the Mediterranean Sea , [ note 1 ] causing medieval Arabic cartography to use a prime meridian around 10° east of Ptolemy's line. Mathematical cartography resumed in Europe following Maximus Planudes ' recovery of Ptolemy's text a little before 1300; the text was translated into Latin at Florence by Jacopo d'Angelo around 1407. In 1884, the United States hosted the International Meridian Conference , attended by representatives from twenty-five nations. Twenty-two of them agreed to adopt the longitude of the Royal Observatory in Greenwich , England as the zero-reference line. The Dominican Republic voted against the motion, while France and Brazil abstained. [ 6 ] France adopted Greenwich Mean Time in place of local determinations by the Paris Observatory in 1911. Latitude and longitude [ edit ] Diagram of the latitude ϕ and longitude λ angle measurements for a spherical model of the Earth. Main articles: Latitude and Longitude The latitude φ of a point on Earth's surface is the angle between the equatorial plane and the straight line that passes through that point and through (or close to) the center of the Earth. [ note 2 ] Lines joining points of the same latitude trace circles on the surface of Earth called parallels , as they are parallel to the Equator and to each other. The North Pole is 90° N; the South Pole is 90° S. The 0° parallel of latitude is designated the Equator , the fundamental plane of all geographic coordinate systems. The Equator divides the globe into Northern and Southern Hemispheres . The longitude λ of a point on Earth's surface is the angle east or west of a reference meridian to another meridian that passes through that point. All meridians are halves of great ellipses (often called great circles ), which converge at the North and South Poles. The meridian of the British Royal Observatory in Greenwich , in southeast London, England, is the international prime meridian , although some organizations—such as the French Institut national de l'information géographique et forestière —continue to use other meridians for internal purposes. The prime meridian determines the proper Eastern and Western Hemispheres , although maps often divide these hemispheres further west in order to keep the Old World on a single side. The antipodal meridian of Greenwich is both 180°W and 180°E. This is not to be conflated with the International Date Line , which diverges from it in several places for political and convenience reasons, including between far eastern Russia and the far western Aleutian Islands . The combination of these two components specifies the position of any location on the surface of Earth, without consideration of altitude or depth. The visual grid on a map formed by lines of latitude and longitude is known as a graticule . [ 7 ] The origin/zero point of this system is located in the Gulf of Guinea about 625 km (390 mi) south of Tema , Ghana , a location often facetiously called Null Island . Geodetic datum [ edit ] Main article: Geodetic datum Further information: Figure of the Earth , Reference ellipsoid , Geographic coordinate conversion , and Spatial reference system In order to use the theoretical definitions of latitude, longitude, and height to precisely measure actual locations on the physical earth, a geodetic datum must be used. A horizonal datum is used to precisely measure latitude and longitude, while a vertical datum is used to measure elevation or altitude. Both types of datum bind a mathematical model of the shape of the earth (usually a reference ellipsoid for a horizontal datum, and a more precise geoid for a vertical datum) to the earth. Traditionally, this binding was created by a network of control points , surveyed locations at which monuments are installed, and were only accurate for a region of the surface of the Earth. Newer datums are based on a global network for satellite measurements ( GNSS , VLBI , SLR and DORIS ). This combination of mathematical model and physical binding mean that anyone using the same datum will obtain the same location measurement for the same physical location. However, two different datums will usually yield different location measurements for the same physical location, which may appear to differ by as much as several hundred meters; this not because the location has moved, but because the reference system used to measure it has shifted. Because any spatial reference system or map projection is ultimately calculated from latitude and longitude, it is crucial that they clearly state the datum on which they are based. For example, a UTM coordinate based on a WGS84 realisation will be different than a UTM coordinate based on NAD27 for the same location. Converting coordinates from one datum to another requires a datum transformation such as a Helmert transformation , although in certain situations a simple translation may be sufficient. [ 8 ] Datums may be global, meaning that they represent the whole Earth, or they may be regional, [ 9 ] meaning that they represent an ellipsoid best-fit to only a portion of the Earth. Examples of global datums include the several realizations of WGS 84 (with the 2D datum ensemble EPSG:4326 with 2 meter accuracy as identifier) [ 10 ] [ 11 ] used for the Global Positioning System , [ note 3 ] and the several realizations of the International Terrestrial Reference System and Frame (such as ITRF2020 with subcentimeter accuracy), which takes into account continental drift and crustal deformation . [ 12 ] Datums with a regional fit of the ellipsoid that are chosen by a national cartographical organization include the North American Datums , the European ED50 , and the British OSGB36 . Given a location, the datum provides the latitude ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } and longitude λ {\displaystyle \lambda } . In the United Kingdom there are three common latitude, longitude, and height systems in use. WGS 84 differs at Greenwich from the one used on published maps OSGB36 by approximately 112 m. ED50 differs from about 120 m to 180 m. [ 13 ] Points on the Earth's surface move relative to each other due to continental plate motion, subsidence, and diurnal Earth tidal movement caused by the Moon and the Sun. This daily movement can be as much as a meter. Continental movement can be up to 10 cm a year, or 10 m in a century. A weather system high-pressure area can cause a sinking of 5 mm . Scandinavia is rising by 1 cm a year as a result of the melting of the ice sheets of the last ice age , but neighboring Scotland is rising by only 0.2 cm . These changes are insignificant if a regional datum is used, but are statistically significant if a global datum is used. [ 13 ] Length of a degree [ edit ] Main articles: Length of a degree of latitude and Length of a degree of longitude See also: Arc length § Great circles on Earth On the GRS 80 or WGS 84 spheroid at sea level at the Equator, one latitudinal second measures 30.715 m , one latitudinal minute is 1843 m and one latitudinal degree is 110.6 km. The circles of longitude, meridians, meet at the geographical poles, with the west–east width of a second naturally decreasing as latitude increases. On the Equator at sea level, one longitudinal second measures 30.92 m, a longitudinal minute is 1855 m and a longitudinal degree is 111.3 km. At 30° a longitudinal second is 26.76 m, at Greenwich (51°28′38″N) 19.22 m, and at 60° it is 15.42 m. On the WGS 84 spheroid, the length in meters of a degree of latitude at latitude ϕ (that is, the number of meters you would have to travel along a north–south line to move 1 degree in latitude, when at latitude ϕ ), is about 111132.92 − 559.82 cos ⁡ 2 ϕ + 1.175 cos ⁡ 4 ϕ − 0.0023 cos ⁡ 6 ϕ {\displaystyle 111132.92-559.82\,\cos 2\phi +1.175\,\cos 4\phi -0.0023\,\cos 6\phi } [ 14 ] The returned measure of meters per degree latitude varies continuously with latitude. Similarly, the length in meters of a degree of longitude can be calculated as 111412.84 cos ⁡ ϕ − 93.5 cos ⁡ 3 ϕ + 0.118 cos ⁡ 5 ϕ {\displaystyle 111412.84\,\cos \phi -93.5\,\cos 3\phi +0.118\,\cos 5\phi } [ 14 ] (Those coefficients can be improved, but as they stand the distance they give is correct within a centimeter.) The formulae both return units of meters per degree. An alternative method to estimate the length of a longitudinal degree at latitude ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } is to assume a spherical Earth (to get the width per minute and second, divide by 60 and 3600, respectively): π 180 M r cos ⁡ ϕ {\displaystyle {\frac {\pi }{180}}M_{r}\cos \phi \!} where Earth's average meridional radius M r {\displaystyle \textstyle {M_{r}}\,\!} is 6,367,449 m . Since the Earth is an oblate spheroid , not spherical, that result can be off by several tenths of a percent; a better approximation of a longitudinal degree at latitude ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } is π 180 a cos ⁡ β {\displaystyle {\frac {\pi }{180}}a\cos \beta \,\!} where Earth's equatorial radius a {\displaystyle a} equals 6,378,137 m and tan ⁡ β = b a tan ⁡ ϕ {\displaystyle \textstyle {\tan \beta ={\frac {b}{a}}\tan \phi }\,\!} ; for the GRS 80 and WGS 84 spheroids, b a = 0.99664719 {\textstyle {\tfrac {b}{a}}=0.99664719} . ( β {\displaystyle \textstyle {\beta }\,\!} is known as the reduced (or parametric) latitude ). Aside from rounding, this is the exact distance along a parallel of latitude; getting the distance along the shortest route will be more work, but those two distances are always within 0.6 m of each other if the two points are one degree of longitude apart. Longitudinal length equivalents at selected latitudes Latitude City Degree Minute Second 0.0001° 60° Saint Petersburg 55.80 km 0.930 km 15.50 m 5.58 m 51° 28′ 38″ N Greenwich 69.47 km 1.158 km 19.30 m 6.95 m 45° Bordeaux 78.85 km 1.31 km 21.90 m 7.89 m 30° New Orleans 96.49 km 1.61 km 26.80 m 9.65 m 0° Quito 111.3 km 1.855 km 30.92 m 11.13 m Alternative encodings [ edit ] Like any series of multiple-digit numbers, latitude-longitude pairs can be challenging to communicate and remember. Therefore, alternative schemes have been developed for encoding GCS coordinates into alphanumeric strings or words: the Maidenhead Locator System , popular with radio operators. the World Geographic Reference System (GEOREF), developed for global military operations, replaced by the current Global Area Reference System (GARS). Open Location Code or "Plus Codes", developed by Google and released into the public domain. Geohash , a public domain system based on the Morton Z-order curve . Mapcode , an open-source system originally developed at TomTom. What3words , a proprietary system that encodes GCS coordinates as pseudorandom sets of words by dividing the coordinates into three numbers and looking up words in an indexed dictionary. These are not distinct coordinate systems, only alternative methods for expressing latitude and longitude measurements. See also [ edit ] Decimal degrees – Angular measurements, typically for latitude and longitude Geographical distance – Distance measured along the surface of the Earth Geographic information system – System to capture, manage, and present geographic data Geo URI scheme – System of geographic location identifiers ISO 6709 , standard representation of geographic point location by coordinates Linear referencing – method of spatial referencing Pages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback Primary direction – Celestial coordinate system used to specify the positions of celestial objects Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Planetary coordinate system Selenographic coordinate system Spatial reference system – System to specify locations on Earth Notes [ edit ] ^ The pair had accurate absolute distances within the Mediterranean but underestimated the circumference of the Earth , causing their degree measurements to overstate its length west from Rhodes or Alexandria, respectively. ^ Alternative versions of latitude and longitude include geocentric coordinates, which measure with respect to Earth's center; geodetic coordinates, which model Earth as an ellipsoid ; and geographic coordinates, which measure with respect to a plumb line at the location for which coordinates are given. ^ WGS 84 is the default datum used in most GPS equipment, but other datums and map projections can be selected. References [ edit ] ^ Chang, Kang-tsung (2016). Introduction to Geographic Information Systems (9th ed.). McGraw-Hill. p. 24. ISBN 978-1-259-92964-9 . ^ DiBiase, David. "The Nature of Geographic Information" . Archived from the original on 19 February 2024 . Retrieved 18 February 2024 . ^ "Using the EPSG geodetic parameter dataset, Guidance Note 7-1" . EPSG Geodetic Parameter Dataset . Geomatic Solutions. Archived from the original on 15 December 2021 . Retrieved 15 December 2021 . ^ McPhail, Cameron (2011), Reconstructing Eratosthenes' Map of the World (PDF) , Dunedin : University of Otago, pp. 20– 24, archived (PDF) from the original on 2 April 2015 , retrieved 14 March 2015 . ^ Evans, James (1998), The History and Practice of Ancient Astronomy , Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, pp. 102– 103, ISBN 9780199874453 , archived from the original on 17 March 2023 , retrieved 5 May 2020 . ^ "The International Meridian Conference" . Millennium Dome: The O2 in Greenwich . Greenwich 2000 Limited. 9 June 2011. Archived from the original on 6 August 2012 . Retrieved 31 October 2012 . ^ American Society of Civil Engineers (1 January 1994). Glossary of the Mapping Sciences . ASCE Publications. p. 224. ISBN 9780784475706 . ^ "Making maps compatible with GPS" . Government of Ireland 1999. Archived from the original on 21 July 2011 . Retrieved 15 April 2008 . ^ "A guide to the coordinate systems in Great Britain" . Ordnance Survey. ^ "WGS 84: EPSG Projection -- Spatial Reference" . spatialreference.org . Archived from the original on 13 May 2020 . Retrieved 5 May 2020 . ^ EPSG:4326 ^ Bolstad, Paul (2012). GIS Fundamentals (PDF) (5th ed.). Atlas books. p. 102. ISBN 978-0-9717647-3-6 . Archived from the original (PDF) on 15 October 2020 . Retrieved 27 January 2018 . ^ a b A guide to coordinate systems in Great Britain (PDF) , D00659 v3.6, Ordnance Survey, 2020, archived (PDF) from the original on 2 April 2020 , retrieved 17 December 2021 ^ a b [1] Archived 29 June 2016 at the Wayback Machine Geographic Information Systems – Stackexchange Sources [ edit ] Portions of this article are from Jason Harris' "Astroinfo" which is distributed with KStars , a desktop planetarium for Linux / KDE . See The KDE Education Project – KStars Archived 17 May 2008 at the Wayback Machine Further reading [ edit ] Jan Smits (2015). Mathematical data for bibliographic descriptions of cartographic materials and spatial data . Geographical co-ordinates . ICA Commission on Map Projections. External links [ edit ] Media related to Geographic coordinate system at Wikimedia Commons v t e Circles of latitude / meridians Equator Tropic of Cancer Tropic of Capricorn Arctic Circle Antarctic Circle Equator Tropic of Cancer Tropic of Capricorn Arctic Circle Antarctic Circle Equator Tropic of Cancer Tropic of Capricorn Arctic Circle Antarctic Circle W 0° E 30° 60° 90° 120° 150° 180° 30° 60° 90° 120° 150° 180° 5° 15° 25° 35° 45° 55° 65° 75° 85° 95° 105° 115° 125° 135° 145° 155° 165° 175° 5° 15° 25° 35° 45° 55° 65° 75° 85° 95° 105° 115° 125° 135° 145° 155° 165° 175° 10° 20° 40° 50° 70° 80° 100° 110° 130° 140° 160° 170° 10° 20° 40° 50° 70° 80° 100° 110° 130° 140° 160° 170° 0° 10° 20° 30° 40° 50° 60° 70° 80° 90° 10° 20° 30° 40° 50° 60° 70° 80° 90° 5° N 15° 25° 35° 45° 55° 65° 75° 85° 5° S 15° 25° 35° 45° 55° 65° 75° 85° 45x90 45x90 45x90 45x90 Authority control databases : National Germany United States France BnF data Czech Republic Israel Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Geographic_coordinate_system&oldid=1279419238 " Categories : Geographic coordinate systems Cartography Geographic position Geodesy Navigation Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Wikipedia pending changes protected pages Use dmy dates from May 2019 Use American English from June 2024 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Articles containing French-language text Pages displaying wikidata descriptions as a fallback via Module:Annotated link Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets via Module:Annotated link Commons category link from Wikidata This page was last edited on 8 March 2025, at 13:09 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Geographic coordinate system 169 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Cyber_City_Skyline.jpeg
File:Cyber City Skyline.jpeg - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk File:Cyber City Skyline.jpeg Add languages Page contents not supported in other languages. File Talk English Read View on Commons Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View on Commons General What links here Upload file Printable version Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia File File history File usage Global file usage Size of this preview: 800 × 549 pixels . Other resolutions: 320 × 220 pixels | 640 × 439 pixels | 1,048 × 719 pixels . Original file (1,048 × 719 pixels, file size: 206 KB, MIME type: image/jpeg ) This is a file from the Wikimedia Commons . Information from its description page there is shown below. Commons is a freely licensed media file repository. You can help . Summary Description Cyber City Skyline.jpeg skyline of Cyber city Source Own work Author Ram.1alien Licensing I, the copyright holder of this work, hereby publish it under the following license: This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 International license. You are free: to share – to copy, distribute and transmit the work to remix – to adapt the work Under the following conditions: attribution – You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use. share alike – If you remix, transform, or build upon the material, you must distribute your contributions under the same or compatible license as the original. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0 CC BY-SA 4.0 Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 true true This file was uploaded via Mobile Android App (Commons mobile app) 2.4.2. Captions English Add a one-line explanation of what this file represents Items portrayed in this file depicts creator some value URL : https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/user:Ram.1alien author name string : Ram.1alien Wikimedia username : Ram.1alien copyright status copyrighted copyright license Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International source of file original creation by uploader media type image/jpeg checksum 952e683d9a5bea32a0f063db00cc7f1db63e63d0 determination method or standard : SHA-1 data size 211,007 byte height 719 pixel width 1,048 pixel File history Click on a date/time to view the file as it appeared at that time. Date/Time Thumbnail Dimensions User Comment current 11:48, 15 September 2017 1,048 × 719 (206 KB) Ram.1alien Uploaded using Android Commons app File usage The following 6 pages use this file: Cyber City Gurgaon Gurgaon List of tallest buildings in Delhi NCR List of tallest buildings in Gurgaon Rail transport in India Rapid Metro Gurgaon Global file usage The following other wikis use this file: Usage on eo.wikipedia.org Metroo de Gurgaono Usage on fr.wikipedia.org Gurgaon Usage on hi.wikipedia.org गुरुग्राम Usage on lv.wikipedia.org Gurugrāma Usage on mai.wikipedia.org गुरुग्राम Usage on ms.wikipedia.org Pengangkutan rel di India Usage on ne.wikipedia.org गुरुग्राम Usage on th.wikipedia.org รถไฟฟ้าด่วนคุร์เคาน์ Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Cyber_City_Skyline.jpeg " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search File:Cyber City Skyline.jpeg Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Map/10/28.494444444444/77.090555555556/en
Coordinates information - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Languages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Coordinates information English Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions General Upload file Printable version Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide Wikimedia maps | Map data © OpenStreetMap contributors 28°29′40″N 77°5′26″E Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Map/10/28.494444444444/77.090555555556/en " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Coordinates information Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/India
India - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Etymology 2 History Toggle History subsection 2.1 Ancient India 2.2 Medieval India 2.3 Early modern India 2.4 Modern India 3 Geography 4 Biodiversity 5 Politics and government Toggle Politics and government subsection 5.1 Politics 5.2 Government 5.3 Administrative divisions 5.3.1 States 5.3.2 Union territories 6 Foreign, economic, and strategic relations 7 Economy Toggle Economy subsection 7.1 Industries 7.2 Energy 7.3 Socio-economic challenges 8 Demographics, languages, and religion 9 Culture Toggle Culture subsection 9.1 Visual art 9.2 Architecture 9.3 Literature 9.4 Performing arts and media 9.5 Society 9.6 Education 9.7 Clothing 9.8 Cuisine 9.9 Sports and recreation 10 See also 11 Notes 12 References 13 Bibliography Toggle Bibliography subsection 13.1 Overview 13.2 Etymology 13.3 History 13.4 Geography 13.5 Biodiversity 13.6 Politics 13.7 Foreign relations and military 13.8 Economy 13.9 Demographics 13.10 Art 13.11 Culture 14 External links Toggle the table of contents India 302 languages Acèh Адыгэбзэ Адыгабзэ Afrikaans Alemannisch አማርኛ Anarâškielâ अंगिका Ænglisc Аԥсшәа العربية Aragonés ܐܪܡܝܐ Արեւմտահայերէն Armãneashti Arpetan অসমীয়া Asturianu Atikamekw अवधी Avañe'ẽ Авар Aymar aru Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه Basa Bali বাংলা Banjar 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú Basa Banyumasan Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Bikol Central Bislama Български Boarisch བོད་ཡིག Bosanski Brezhoneg Буряад Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština Chamoru Chavacano de Zamboanga Chi-Chewa ChiShona ChiTumbuka Corsu Cymraeg Dagbanli Dansk الدارجة Davvisámegiella Deitsch Deutsch ދިވެހިބަސް Diné bizaad Dolnoserbski डोटेली ཇོང་ཁ Eesti Ελληνικά Эрзянь Español Esperanto Estremeñu Euskara Eʋegbe فارسی Fiji Hindi Føroyskt Français Frysk Fulfulde Furlan Gaeilge Gaelg Gagauz Gàidhlig Galego ГӀалгӀай 贛語 Gĩkũyũ گیلکی ગુજરાતી 𐌲𐌿𐍄𐌹𐍃𐌺 गोंयची कोंकणी / Gõychi Konknni 客家語 / Hak-kâ-ngî Хальмг 한국어 Hausa Hawaiʻi Հայերեն हिन्दी Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Ido Igbo Ilokano বিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরী Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Interlingue ᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ / inuktitut Iñupiatun Ирон IsiXhosa IsiZulu Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa Kabɩyɛ ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan Къарачай-малкъар ქართული कॉशुर / کٲشُر Kaszëbsczi Қазақша Kernowek Ikinyarwanda Ikirundi Kiswahili Коми Kongo Kotava Kreyòl ayisyen Kriyòl gwiyannen Kurdî Кыргызча Ladin Ladino Лакку ລາວ Latgaļu Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Лезги Lietuvių Ligure Limburgs Lingála Lingua Franca Nova Livvinkarjala La .lojban. Lombard Magyar Madhurâ मैथिली Македонски Malagasy മലയാളം Malti Māori मराठी მარგალური مصرى مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ Minangkabau 閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Mirandés Мокшень Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Na Vosa Vakaviti Nederlands Nedersaksies नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Napulitano Нохчийн Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Nouormand Novial Occitan Олык марий ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oromoo Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ पालि Pangcah پنجابی ပအိုဝ်ႏဘာႏသာႏ Papiamentu پښتو Patois ភាសាខ្មែរ Picard Piemontèis Tok Pisin Plattdüütsch Polski Português Qaraqalpaqsha Qırımtatarca Reo tahiti Română Romani čhib Rumantsch Runa Simi Русиньскый Русский Саха тыла Sakizaya Gagana Samoa संस्कृतम् Sängö ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ سرائیکی Sardu Scots Seediq Seeltersk Sesotho Sesotho sa Leboa Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English سنڌي SiSwati Slovenčina Slovenščina Словѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟ Ślůnski Soomaaliga کوردی Sranantongo Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Taqbaylit Tarandíne Татарча / tatarça တႆး Tayal తెలుగు Tetun ไทย Thuɔŋjäŋ ትግርኛ Тоҷикӣ Lea faka-Tonga ᏣᎳᎩ Tsetsêhestâhese ತುಳು Türkçe Türkmençe Twi Tyap Удмурт Basa Ugi Українська اردو ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Vahcuengh Vèneto Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt Volapük Võro Walon 文言 West-Vlams Winaray Wolof 吴语 Xitsonga ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 Zazaki Zeêuws Žemaitėška 中文 Obolo Batak Toba Betawi Batak Mandailing Kadazandusun Jaku Iban Kumoring Yerwa Kanuri ᥖᥭᥰ ᥖᥬᥲ ᥑᥨᥒᥰ Tolışi ⵜⴰⵎⴰⵣⵉⵖⵜ ⵜⴰⵏⴰⵡⴰⵢⵜ Edit links Article Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Wikiquote Wikivoyage Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 21°N 78°E ﻿ / ﻿ 21°N 78°E ﻿ / 21; 78 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Country in South Asia This article is about the Republic of India. For other uses, see India (disambiguation) . Republic of India Bhārat Gaṇarājya Flag State emblem Motto: Satyameva Jayate ( Sanskrit ) "Truth Alone Triumphs" [ 1 ] Anthem: Jana Gana Mana ( Hindi ) [ a ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] "Thou Art the Ruler of the Minds of All People" [ 4 ] [ 2 ] National song: Vande Mataram ( Sanskrit ) [ c ] "I Bow to Thee, Mother" [ b ] [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Territory controlled by India Territory claimed but not controlled Capital New Delhi 28°36′50″N 77°12′30″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.61389°N 77.20833°E ﻿ / 28.61389; 77.20833 Largest city by city proper population Mumbai Largest city by metropolitan area population Delhi Official languages Hindi English [ d ] [ 8 ] Recognised regional languages State level and Eighth Schedule [ 9 ] Eighth Schedule Assamese Bengali Boro Dogri Gujarati Hindi Kannada Kashmiri Konkani Maithili Malayalam Manipuri Marathi Nepali Odia Punjabi Sanskrit Santali Sindhi Tamil Telugu Urdu State level [ e ] Kokborok Lepcha Mizo Sikkimese all the 8th scheduled languages – except Sindhi , Kashmiri and Dogri [ f ] Native languages 424 languages [ g ] Religion (2011) [ 11 ] 79.8% Hinduism 14.2% Islam 2.3% Christianity 1.7% Sikhism 0.7% Buddhism 0.4% Jainism 0.23% unaffiliated 0.65% other Demonym(s) Indian others Government Federal parliamentary republic • President Droupadi Murmu • Prime Minister Narendra Modi Legislature Parliament • Upper house Rajya Sabha • Lower house Lok Sabha Independence from the United Kingdom • Dominion 15 August 1947 • Republic 26 January 1950 Area • Total 3,287,263 km 2 (1,269,219 sq mi) [ 2 ] [ h ] ( 7th ) • Water (%) 9.6 Population • 2023 estimate 1,428,627,663 [ 13 ] ( 1st ) • 2011 census 1,210,854,977 [ 14 ] [ 15 ] ( 2nd ) • Density 428.7/km 2 (1,110.3/sq mi) ( 30th ) GDP ( PPP ) 2025 estimate • Total $17.36 trillion [ 16 ] [ 17 ] ( 3rd ) • Per capita $11,940 [ 16 ] ( 119th ) GDP (nominal) 2025 estimate • Total $4.27 trillion [ 16 ] ( 5th ) • Per capita $2,940 [ 16 ] ( 138th ) Gini (2021) 32.8 [ 18 ] medium inequality HDI (2022) 0.644 [ 19 ] medium ( 134th ) Currency Indian rupee ( ₹ ) ( INR ) Time zone UTC +05:30 ( IST ) DST is not observed. Date format dd - mm - yyyy [ i ] Calling code +91 ISO 3166 code IN Internet TLD .in ( others ) India , officially the Republic of India , [ j ] [ 21 ] is a country in South Asia .  It is the seventh-largest country by area ; the most populous country from June 2023 onwards; [ 22 ] [ 23 ] and since its independence in 1947, the world's most populous democracy. [ 24 ] [ 25 ] [ 26 ] Bounded by the Indian Ocean on the south, the Arabian Sea on the southwest, and the Bay of Bengal on the southeast, it shares land borders with Pakistan to the west; [ k ] China , Nepal , and Bhutan to the north; and Bangladesh and Myanmar to the east. In the Indian Ocean, India is near Sri Lanka and the Maldives ; its Andaman and Nicobar Islands share a maritime border with Thailand , Myanmar, and Indonesia . Modern humans arrived on the Indian subcontinent from Africa no later than 55,000 years ago. [ 28 ] [ 29 ] [ 30 ] Their long occupation, predominantly in isolation as hunter-gatherers, has made the region highly diverse, second only to Africa in human genetic diversity . [ 31 ] Settled life emerged on the subcontinent in the western margins of the Indus river basin 9,000 years ago, evolving gradually into the Indus Valley Civilisation of the third millennium BCE. [ 32 ] By 1200 BCE , an archaic form of Sanskrit , an Indo-European language , had diffused into India from the northwest. [ 33 ] [ 34 ] Its hymns recorded the dawning of Hinduism in India. [ 35 ] India's pre-existing Dravidian languages were supplanted in the northern regions. [ 36 ] By 400 BCE , caste had emerged within Hinduism, [ 37 ] and Buddhism and Jainism had arisen, proclaiming social orders unlinked to heredity. [ 38 ] Early political consolidations gave rise to the loose-knit Maurya and Gupta Empires . [ 39 ] Widespread creativity suffused this era, [ 40 ] but the status of women declined, [ 41 ] and untouchability became an organized belief. [ l ] [ 42 ] In South India , the Middle kingdoms exported Dravidian language scripts and religious cultures to the kingdoms of Southeast Asia . [ 43 ] In the early mediaeval era, Christianity , Islam , Judaism , and Zoroastrianism became established on India's southern and western coasts. [ 44 ] Muslim armies from Central Asia intermittently overran India's northern plains. [ 45 ] The resulting Delhi Sultanate drew northern India into the cosmopolitan networks of mediaeval Islam . [ 46 ] In south India, the Vijayanagara Empire created a long-lasting composite Hindu culture. [ 47 ] In the Punjab , Sikhism emerged, rejecting institutionalised religion. [ 48 ] The Mughal Empire , in 1526, ushered in two centuries of relative peace, [ 49 ] leaving a legacy of luminous architecture . [ m ] [ 50 ] Gradually expanding rule of the British East India Company turned India into a colonial economy but consolidated its sovereignty . [ 51 ] British Crown rule began in 1858. The rights promised to Indians were granted slowly, [ 52 ] [ 53 ] but technological changes were introduced, and modern ideas of education and public life took root. [ 54 ] A pioneering and influential nationalist movement , noted for nonviolent resistance, became the major factor in ending British rule. [ 55 ] [ 56 ] In 1947, the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two independent dominions , [ 57 ] [ 58 ] [ 59 ] [ 60 ] a Hindu-majority dominion of India and a Muslim-majority dominion of Pakistan . A large-scale loss of life and an unprecedented migration accompanied the partition. [ 61 ] India has been a federal republic since 1950, governed through a democratic parliamentary system . It is a pluralistic , multilingual and multi-ethnic society . India's population grew from 361 million in 1951 to over 1.4 billion in 2023. [ 62 ] During this time, its nominal per capita income increased from US$64 annually to US$2,601, and its literacy rate from 16.6% to 74%. A comparatively destitute country in 1951, [ 63 ] India has become a fast-growing major economy and hub for information technology services ; it has an expanding middle class. [ 64 ] Indian movies and music increasingly influence global culture. [ 65 ] India has reduced its poverty rate , though at the cost of increasing economic inequality. [ 66 ] It is a nuclear-weapon state that ranks high in military expenditure . It has disputes over Kashmir with its neighbours, Pakistan and China, unresolved since the mid-20th century. [ 67 ] Among the socio-economic challenges India faces are gender inequality , child malnutrition , [ 68 ] and rising levels of air pollution . [ 69 ] India's land is megadiverse with four biodiversity hotspots . [ 70 ] India's wildlife , which has traditionally been viewed with tolerance in its culture , [ 71 ] is supported among these forests and elsewhere in protected habitats . Etymology Main article: Names for India According to the Oxford English Dictionary (2009), the name "India" is derived from the Classical Latin India , a reference to South Asia and an uncertain region to its east. In turn "India" derived successively from Hellenistic Greek India ( Ἰνδία ), ancient Greek Indos ( Ἰνδός ), Old Persian Hindush (an eastern province of the Achaemenid Empire ), and ultimately its cognate , the Sanskrit Sindhu , or "river", specifically the Indus River and, by implication, its well-settled southern basin. [ 72 ] [ 73 ] The ancient Greeks referred to the Indians as Indoi , "The people of the Indus". [ 74 ] The term Bharat ( Bhārat ; pronounced [ˈbʱaːɾət] ⓘ ), mentioned in both Indian epic poetry and the Constitution of India , [ 75 ] [ 76 ] is used in its variations by many Indian languages . A modern rendering of the historical name Bharatavarsha , which applied originally to North India , [ 77 ] [ 78 ] Bharat gained increased currency from the mid-19th century as a native name for India. [ 75 ] [ 79 ] Hindustan ( [ɦɪndʊˈstaːn] ⓘ ) is a Middle Persian name for India that became popular by the 13th century, [ 80 ] and was used widely since the era of the Mughal Empire . The meaning of Hindustan has varied, referring to a region encompassing the northern Indian subcontinent (present-day northern India and Pakistan ) or to India in its near entirety. [ 75 ] [ 79 ] [ 81 ] History Main articles: History of India and History of the Republic of India Ancient India Manuscript illustration, c. 1650 , of the Sanskrit epic Ramayana , composed in story-telling fashion c. 400 BCE – c. 300 CE [ 82 ] By 55,000 years ago, the first modern humans, or Homo sapiens , had arrived on the Indian subcontinent from Africa. [ 28 ] [ 29 ] [ 30 ] The earliest known modern human remains in South Asia date to about 30,000 years ago. [ 28 ] After 6500 BCE , evidence for domestication of food crops and animals, construction of permanent structures, and storage of agricultural surplus appeared in Mehrgarh and other sites in Balochistan, Pakistan . [ 83 ] These gradually developed into the Indus Valley Civilisation , [ 84 ] [ 83 ] the first urban culture in South Asia, [ 85 ] which flourished during 2500–1900 BCE in Pakistan and western India. [ 86 ] Centred around cities such as Mohenjo-daro , Harappa , Dholavira , and Kalibangan , and relying on varied forms of subsistence, the civilisation engaged robustly in crafts production and wide-ranging trade. [ 85 ] During the period 2000–500 BCE , many regions of the subcontinent transitioned from the Chalcolithic cultures to the Iron Age ones. [ 87 ] The Vedas , the oldest scriptures associated with Hinduism , [ 88 ] were composed during this period, [ 89 ] and historians have analysed these to posit a Vedic culture in the Punjab region and the upper Gangetic Plain . [ 87 ] Most historians also consider this period to have encompassed several waves of Indo-Aryan migration into the subcontinent from the north-west. [ 88 ] The caste system , which created a hierarchy of priests, warriors, and free peasants, but which excluded indigenous peoples by labelling their occupations impure, arose during this period. [ 90 ] On the Deccan Plateau , archaeological evidence from this period suggests the existence of a chiefdom stage of political organisation. [ 87 ] In South India , a progression to sedentary life is indicated by the large number of megalithic monuments dating from this period, [ 91 ] as well as by nearby traces of agriculture , irrigation tanks , and craft traditions. [ 91 ] Cave 26 of the rock-cut Ajanta Caves In the late Vedic period, around the 6th century BCE, the small states and chiefdoms of the Ganges Plain and the north-western regions had consolidated into 16 major oligarchies and monarchies that were known as the mahajanapadas . [ 92 ] [ 93 ] The emerging urbanisation gave rise to non-Vedic religious movements, two of which became independent religions. Jainism came into prominence during the life of its exemplar, Mahavira . [ 94 ] Buddhism , based on the teachings of Gautama Buddha , attracted followers from all social classes excepting the middle class; chronicling the life of the Buddha was central to the beginnings of recorded history in India. [ 95 ] [ 96 ] [ 97 ] In an age of increasing urban wealth, both religions held up renunciation as an ideal, [ 98 ] and both established long-lasting monastic traditions. Politically, by the 3rd century BCE, the kingdom of Magadha had annexed or reduced other states to emerge as the Maurya Empire . [ 99 ] The empire was once thought to have controlled most of the subcontinent except the far south, but its core regions are now thought to have been separated by large autonomous areas. [ 100 ] [ 101 ] The Mauryan kings are known as much for their empire-building and determined management of public life as for Ashoka 's renunciation of militarism and far-flung advocacy of the Buddhist dhamma . [ 102 ] [ 103 ] The Sangam literature of the Tamil language reveals that, between 200 BCE and 200 CE , the southern peninsula was ruled by the Cheras , the Cholas , and the Pandyas , dynasties that traded extensively with the Roman Empire and with West and Southeast Asia . [ 104 ] [ 105 ] In North India, Hinduism asserted patriarchal control within the family, leading to increased subordination of women. [ 106 ] [ 99 ] By the 4th and 5th centuries, the Gupta Empire had created a complex system of administration and taxation in the greater Ganges Plain; this system became a model for later Indian kingdoms. [ 107 ] [ 108 ] Under the Guptas, a renewed Hinduism based on devotion, rather than the management of ritual, began to assert itself. [ 109 ] This renewal was reflected in a flowering of sculpture and architecture , which found patrons among an urban elite. [ 108 ] Classical Sanskrit literature flowered as well, and Indian science , astronomy , medicine , and mathematics made significant advances. [ 108 ] Medieval India Main article: Medieval India Brihadeshwara temple , Thanjavur , completed in 1010 CE The Qutub Minar , 73 m (240 ft) tall, completed by the Sultan of Delhi , Iltutmish The Indian early medieval age, from 600 to 1200 CE , is defined by regional kingdoms and cultural diversity. [ 110 ] When Harsha of Kannauj , who ruled much of the Indo-Gangetic Plain from 606 to 647 CE , attempted to expand southwards, he was defeated by the Chalukya ruler of the Deccan. [ 111 ] When his successor attempted to expand eastwards, he was defeated by the Pala king of Bengal . [ 111 ] When the Chalukyas attempted to expand southwards, they were defeated by the Pallavas from farther south, who in turn were opposed by the Pandyas and the Cholas from still farther south. [ 111 ] No ruler of this period was able to create an empire and consistently control lands much beyond their core region. [ 110 ] During this time, pastoral peoples, whose land had been cleared to make way for the growing agricultural economy, were accommodated within caste society, as were new non-traditional ruling classes. [ 112 ] The caste system consequently began to show regional differences. [ 112 ] In the 6th and 7th centuries, the first devotional hymns were created in the Tamil language. [ 113 ] They were imitated all over India and led to both the resurgence of Hinduism and the development of all modern languages of the subcontinent . [ 113 ] Indian royalty, big and small, and the temples they patronised drew citizens in great numbers to the capital cities, which became economic hubs as well. [ 114 ] Temple towns of various sizes began to appear everywhere as India underwent another urbanisation. [ 114 ] By the 8th and 9th centuries, the effects were felt in Southeast Asia, as South Indian culture and political systems were exported to lands that became part of modern-day Myanmar , Thailand , Laos , Brunei , Cambodia , Vietnam , Philippines , Malaysia , and Indonesia . [ 115 ] Indian merchants, scholars, and sometimes armies were involved in this transmission; Southeast Asians took the initiative as well, with many sojourning in Indian seminaries and translating Buddhist and Hindu texts into their languages. [ 115 ] After the 10th century, Muslim Central Asian nomadic clans, using swift-horse cavalry and raising vast armies united by ethnicity and religion, repeatedly overran South Asia's north-western plains, leading eventually to the establishment of the Islamic Delhi Sultanate in 1206. [ 116 ] The sultanate was to control much of North India and to make many forays into South India. Although at first disruptive for the Indian elites, the sultanate largely left its vast non-Muslim subject population to its own laws and customs. [ 117 ] [ 118 ] By repeatedly repulsing Mongol raiders in the 13th century, the sultanate saved India from the devastation visited on West and Central Asia, setting the scene for centuries of migration of fleeing soldiers, learned men, mystics, traders, artists, and artisans from that region into the subcontinent, thereby creating a syncretic Indo-Islamic culture in the north. [ 119 ] [ 120 ] The sultanate's raiding and weakening of the regional kingdoms of South India paved the way for the indigenous Vijayanagara Empire . [ 121 ] Embracing a strong Shaivite tradition and building upon the military technology of the sultanate, the empire came to control much of peninsular India, [ 122 ] and was to influence South Indian society for long afterwards. [ 121 ] Early modern India In the early 16th century, northern India, then under mainly Muslim rulers, [ 123 ] fell again to the superior mobility and firepower of a new generation of Central Asian warriors. [ 124 ] The resulting Mughal Empire did not stamp out the local societies it came to rule. Instead, it balanced and pacified them through new administrative practices [ 125 ] [ 126 ] and diverse and inclusive ruling elites, [ 127 ] leading to more systematic, centralised, and uniform rule. [ 128 ] Eschewing tribal bonds and Islamic identity, especially under Akbar , the Mughals united their far-flung realms through loyalty, expressed through a Persianised culture, to an emperor who had near-divine status. [ 127 ] The Mughal state's economic policies, deriving most revenues from agriculture [ 129 ] and mandating that taxes be paid in the well-regulated silver currency, [ 130 ] caused peasants and artisans to enter larger markets. [ 128 ] The relative peace maintained by the empire during much of the 17th century was a factor in India's economic expansion, [ 128 ] resulting in greater patronage of painting , literary forms, textiles, and architecture . [ 131 ] Newly coherent social groups in northern and western India, such as the Marathas , the Rajputs , and the Sikhs , gained military and governing ambitions during Mughal rule, which, through collaboration or adversity, gave them both recognition and military experience. [ 132 ] Expanding commerce during Mughal rule gave rise to new Indian commercial and political elites along the coasts of southern and eastern India. [ 132 ] As the empire disintegrated, many among these elites were able to seek and control their own affairs. [ 133 ] A distant view of the Taj Mahal from the Agra Fort A two mohur Company gold coin, issued in 1835, the obverse inscribed " William IIII , King" By the early 18th century, with the lines between commercial and political dominance being increasingly blurred, a number of European trading companies, including the English East India Company , had established coastal outposts. [ 134 ] [ 135 ] The East India Company's control of the seas, greater resources, and more advanced military training and technology led it to increasingly assert its military strength and caused it to become attractive to a portion of the Indian elite; these factors were crucial in allowing the company to gain control over the Bengal region by 1765 and sideline the other European companies. [ 136 ] [ 134 ] [ 137 ] [ 138 ] Its further access to the riches of Bengal and the subsequent increased strength and size of its army enabled it to annex or subdue most of India by the 1820s. [ 139 ] India was then no longer exporting manufactured goods as it long had, but was instead supplying the British Empire with raw materials. Many historians consider this to be the onset of India's colonial period. [ 134 ] By this time, with its economic power severely curtailed by the British parliament and having effectively been made an arm of British administration, the East India Company began more consciously to enter non-economic arenas, including education, social reform, and culture. [ 140 ] Modern India Main article: History of India (1947–present) Historians consider India's modern age to have begun sometime between 1848 and 1885. The appointment in 1848 of Lord Dalhousie as Governor General of the East India Company set the stage for changes essential to a modern state. These included the consolidation and demarcation of sovereignty, the surveillance of the population, and the education of citizens. Technological changes—among them, railways, canals, and the telegraph—were introduced not long after their introduction in Europe . [ 141 ] [ 142 ] [ 143 ] [ 144 ] However, disaffection with the company also grew during this time and set off the Indian Rebellion of 1857 . Fed by diverse resentments and perceptions, including invasive British-style social reforms, harsh land taxes, and summary treatment of some rich landowners and princes, the rebellion rocked many regions of northern and central India and shook the foundations of Company rule. [ 145 ] [ 146 ] Although the rebellion was suppressed by 1858, it led to the dissolution of the East India Company and the direct administration of India by the British government. Proclaiming a unitary state and a gradual but limited British-style parliamentary system, the new rulers also protected princes and landed gentry as a feudal safeguard against future unrest. [ 147 ] [ 148 ] In the decades following, public life gradually emerged all over India, leading eventually to the founding of the Indian National Congress in 1885. [ 149 ] [ 150 ] [ 151 ] [ 152 ] The rush of technology and the commercialisation of agriculture in the second half of the 19th century was marked by economic setbacks, and many small farmers became dependent on the whims of far-away markets. [ 153 ] There was an increase in the number of large-scale famines , [ 154 ] and, despite the risks of infrastructure development borne by Indian taxpayers, little industrial employment was generated for Indians. [ 155 ] There were also salutary effects: commercial cropping, especially in the newly canalled Punjab, led to increased food production for internal consumption. [ 156 ] The railway network provided critical famine relief, [ 157 ] notably reduced the cost of moving goods, [ 157 ] and helped nascent Indian-owned industry. [ 156 ] 1909 map of the British Indian Empire Jawaharlal Nehru sharing a light moment with Mahatma Gandhi , Mumbai, 6 July 1946 After World War I , in which approximately one million Indians served , [ 158 ] a new period began. It was marked by British reforms but also repressive legislation , by more strident Indian calls for self-rule, and by the beginnings of a nonviolent movement of non-co-operation, of which Mahatma Gandhi would become the leader and enduring symbol. [ 159 ] During the 1930s, slow legislative reform was enacted by the British; the Indian National Congress won victories in the resulting elections. [ 160 ] The next decade was beset with crises: Indian participation in World War II , the Congress's final push for non-co-operation, and an upsurge of Muslim nationalism . All were capped by the advent of independence in 1947, but tempered by the partition of India into two states: India and Pakistan. [ 161 ] Vital to India's self-image as an independent nation was its constitution, completed in 1950, which put in place a secular and democratic republic. [ 162 ] Economic liberalisation, which began in the 1980s and the collaboration with Soviet Union for technical know-how, [ 163 ] has created a large urban middle class, transformed India into one of the world's fastest-growing economies , [ 164 ] and increased its geopolitical clout. Yet, India is also shaped by seemingly unyielding poverty, both rural and urban; [ 165 ] by religious and caste-related violence ; [ 166 ] by Maoist-inspired Naxalite insurgencies ; [ 167 ] and by separatism in Jammu and Kashmir and in Northeast India . [ 168 ] It has unresolved territorial disputes with China [ 169 ] and with Pakistan . [ 169 ] India's sustained democratic freedoms are unique among the world's newer nations; however, in spite of its recent economic successes, freedom from want for its disadvantaged population remains a goal yet to be achieved. [ 170 ] Geography Main article: Geography of India India accounts for the bulk of the Indian subcontinent, lying atop the Indian tectonic plate , a part of the Indo-Australian Plate . [ 171 ] India's defining geological processes began 75 million years ago when the Indian Plate, then part of the southern supercontinent Gondwana , began a north-eastward drift caused by seafloor spreading to its south-west, and later, south and south-east. [ 171 ] Simultaneously, the vast Tethyan oceanic crust , to its northeast, began to subduct under the Eurasian Plate . [ 171 ] These dual processes, driven by convection in the Earth's mantle , both created the Indian Ocean and caused the Indian continental crust eventually to under-thrust Eurasia and to uplift the Himalayas . [ 171 ] Immediately south of the emerging Himalayas, plate movement created a vast crescent-shaped trough that rapidly filled with river-borne sediment [ 172 ] and now constitutes the Indo-Gangetic Plain . [ 173 ] The original Indian plate makes its first appearance above the sediment in the ancient Aravalli range , which extends from the Delhi Ridge in a southwesterly direction. To the west lies the Thar Desert , the eastern spread of which is checked by the Aravallis. [ 174 ] [ 175 ] [ 176 ] The Tungabhadra , with rocky outcrops, flows into the peninsular Krishna River . [ 177 ] Fishing boats lashed together in a tidal creek in Anjarle village, Maharashtra The remaining Indian Plate survives as peninsular India , the oldest and geologically most stable part of India. It extends as far north as the Satpura and Vindhya ranges in central India. These parallel chains run from the Arabian Sea coast in Gujarat in the west to the coal-rich Chota Nagpur Plateau in Jharkhand in the east. [ 178 ] To the south, the remaining peninsular landmass, the Deccan Plateau , is flanked on the west and east by coastal ranges known as the Western and Eastern Ghats ; [ 179 ] the plateau contains the country's oldest rock formations, some over one billion years old. Constituted in such fashion, India lies to the north of the equator between 6° 44′ and 35° 30′ north latitude [ n ] and 68° 7′ and 97° 25′ east longitude. [ 180 ] India's coastline measures 7,517 kilometres (4,700 mi) in length; of this distance, 5,423 kilometres (3,400 mi) belong to peninsular India and 2,094 kilometres (1,300 mi) to the Andaman, Nicobar, and Lakshadweep island chains. [ 181 ] According to the Indian naval hydrographic charts, the mainland coastline consists of the following: 43% sandy beaches; 11% rocky shores, including cliffs; and 46% mudflats or marshy shores. [ 181 ] Major Himalayan-origin rivers that substantially flow through India include the Ganges and the Brahmaputra , both of which drain into the Bay of Bengal . [ 182 ] Important tributaries of the Ganges include the Yamuna and the Kosi ; the latter's extremely low gradient, caused by long-term silt deposition, leads to severe floods and course changes. [ 183 ] [ 184 ] Major peninsular rivers, whose steeper gradients prevent their waters from flooding, include the Godavari , the Mahanadi , the Kaveri , and the Krishna , which also drain into the Bay of Bengal; [ 185 ] and the Narmada and the Tapti , which drain into the Arabian Sea . [ 186 ] Coastal features include the marshy Rann of Kutch of western India and the alluvial Sundarbans delta of eastern India; the latter is shared with Bangladesh. [ 187 ] India has two archipelagos : the Lakshadweep , coral atolls off India's south-western coast; and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a volcanic chain in the Andaman Sea . [ 188 ] Indian climate is strongly influenced by the Himalayas and the Thar Desert, both of which drive the economically and culturally pivotal summer and winter monsoons . [ 189 ] The Himalayas prevent cold Central Asian katabatic winds from blowing in, keeping the bulk of the Indian subcontinent warmer than most locations at similar latitudes. [ 190 ] [ 191 ] The Thar Desert plays a crucial role in attracting the moisture-laden south-west summer monsoon winds that, between June and October, provide the majority of India's rainfall. [ 189 ] Four major climatic groupings predominate in India: tropical wet , tropical dry , subtropical humid , and montane . [ 192 ] Temperatures in India have risen by 0.7 °C (1.3 °F) between 1901 and 2018. [ 193 ] Climate change in India is often thought to be the cause. The retreat of Himalayan glaciers has adversely affected the flow rate of the major Himalayan rivers, including the Ganges and the Brahmaputra . [ 194 ] According to some current projections, the number and severity of droughts in India will have markedly increased by the end of the present century. [ 195 ] Biodiversity Main articles: Forestry in India and Wildlife of India India is a megadiverse country , a term employed for 17 countries that display high biological diversity and contain many species exclusively indigenous , or endemic , to them. [ 196 ] India is the habitat for 8.6% of all mammals , 13.7% of bird species, 7.9% of reptile species, 6% of amphibian species, 12.2% of fish species, and 6.0% of all flowering plant species. [ 197 ] [ 198 ] Fully a third of Indian plant species are endemic. [ 199 ] India also contains four of the world's 34 biodiversity hotspots , [ 70 ] or regions that display significant habitat loss in the presence of high endemism. [ o ] [ 200 ] India's most dense forests, such as the tropical moist forest of the Andaman Islands , the Western Ghats , and Northeast India , occupy approximately 3% of its land area. [ 201 ] [ 202 ] Moderately dense forest , whose canopy density is between 40% and 70%, occupies 9.39% of India's land area. [ 201 ] [ 202 ] It predominates in the temperate coniferous forest of the Himalayas , the moist deciduous sal forest of eastern India, and the dry deciduous teak forest of central and southern India. [ 203 ] India has two natural zones of thorn forest , one in the Deccan Plateau , immediately east of the Western Ghats, and the other in the western part of the Indo-Gangetic plain, now turned into rich agricultural land by irrigation, its features no longer visible. [ 204 ] Among the Indian subcontinent's notable indigenous trees are the astringent Azadirachta indica , or neem , which is widely used in rural Indian herbal medicine , [ 205 ] and the luxuriant Ficus religiosa , or peepul , [ 206 ] which is displayed on the ancient seals of Mohenjo-daro , [ 207 ] and under which the Buddha is recorded in the Pali canon to have sought enlightenment. [ 208 ] Many Indian species have descended from those of Gondwana , the southern supercontinent from which India separated more than 100 million years ago. [ 209 ] India's subsequent collision with Eurasia set off a mass exchange of species. However, volcanism and climatic changes later caused the extinction of many endemic Indian forms. [ 210 ] Still later, mammals entered India from Asia through two zoogeographic passes flanking the Himalayas. [ 211 ] This had the effect of lowering endemism among India's mammals, which stands at 12.6%, contrasting with 45.8% among reptiles and 55.8% among amphibians. [ 198 ] Among endemics are the vulnerable [ 212 ] hooded leaf monkey [ 213 ] and the threatened [ 214 ] Beddome's toad [ 214 ] [ 215 ] of the Western Ghats. India contains 172 IUCN -designated threatened animal species , or 2.9% of endangered forms. [ 216 ] These include the endangered Bengal tiger and the Ganges river dolphin . Critically endangered species include the gharial , a crocodilian ; the great Indian bustard ; and the Indian white-rumped vulture , which has become nearly extinct by having ingested the carrion of diclofenac -treated cattle. [ 217 ] Before they were extensively used for agriculture and cleared for human settlement, the thorn forests of Punjab were mingled at intervals with open grasslands that were grazed by large herds of blackbuck preyed on by the Asiatic cheetah ; the blackbuck, no longer extant in Punjab, is now severely endangered in India, and the cheetah is extinct. [ 218 ] The pervasive and ecologically devastating human encroachment of recent decades has critically endangered Indian wildlife. In response, the system of national parks and protected areas , first established in 1935, was expanded substantially. In 1972, India enacted the Wildlife Protection Act [ 219 ] and Project Tiger to safeguard crucial wilderness; the Forest Conservation Act was enacted in 1980 and amendments added in 1988. [ 220 ] India hosts more than five hundred wildlife sanctuaries and eighteen biosphere reserves , [ 221 ] four of which are part of the World Network of Biosphere Reserves ; seventy-five wetlands are registered under the Ramsar Convention . [ 222 ] India has the majority of the world's wild tigers , approximately 3,170 in 2022. [ 223 ] A chital ( Axis axis ) stag in the Nagarhole National Park in a region covered by a moderately dense [ p ] forest. Three of the last Asiatic cheetahs in India were shot dead in 1948 in Surguja district , Madhya Pradesh , Central India by Maharajah Ramanuj Pratap Singh Deo . The young male cheetahs , all from the same litter, were sitting together when they were shot at night. Politics and government Politics Main article: Politics of India As part of Janadesh 2007 , 25,000 pro- land reform landless people in Madhya Pradesh listen to Rajagopal P. V. [ 224 ] A parliamentary republic with a multi-party system , [ 225 ] India has six recognised national parties , including the Indian National Congress (INC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and more than 50 regional parties . [ 226 ] The Congress is considered center in Indian political culture , [ 227 ] and the BJP right-wing . [ 228 ] [ 229 ] [ 230 ] For most of the period between 1950—when India first became a republic—and the late 1980s, the Congress held a majority in the Parliament . Since then, however, it has increasingly shared the political stage with the BJP, [ 231 ] as well as with powerful regional parties which have often forced the creation of multi-party coalition governments at the center. [ 232 ] In the Republic of India's first three general elections, in 1951 , 1957 , and 1962 , the Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru -led Congress won easy victories. On Nehru's death in 1964, Lal Bahadur Shastri briefly became prime minister; he was succeeded, after his own unexpected death in 1966, by Nehru's daughter Indira Gandhi , who went on to lead the Congress to election victories in 1967 and 1971 . Following public discontent with the state of emergency she declared in 1975, the Congress was voted out of power in 1977 ; the then-new Janata Party , which had opposed the emergency, was voted in. Its government lasted just over two years. There were two prime ministers during this period; Morarji Desai and Charan Singh . Voted back into power in 1980, the Congress saw a change in leadership in 1984, when Indira Gandhi was assassinated ; she was succeeded by her son Rajiv Gandhi , who won an easy victory in the general elections later that year . The Congress was voted out again in 1989 when a National Front coalition, led by the newly formed Janata Dal in alliance with the Left Front , won the elections; that government too proved relatively short-lived, lasting just under two years. There were two prime ministers during this period; V.P. Singh and Chandra Shekhar . [ 233 ] Elections were held again in 1991 ; no party won an absolute majority. The Congress, as the largest single party, was able to form a minority government led by P. V. Narasimha Rao . [ 234 ] US president Barack Obama addresses the members of the Parliament of India in New Delhi in November 2010. A two-year period of political turmoil followed the general election of 1996 . Several short-lived alliances shared power at the centre. The BJP formed a government briefly in 1996; it was followed by two comparatively long-lasting United Front coalitions, which depended on external support. There were two prime ministers during this period; H.D. Deve Gowda and I.K. Gujral . In 1998 , the BJP was able to form a successful coalition, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee , the NDA became the first non-Congress, coalition government to complete a five-year term. [ 235 ] Again in the 2004 Indian general elections , no party won an absolute majority, but the Congress emerged as the largest single party, forming another successful coalition: the United Progressive Alliance (UPA). It had the support of left-leaning parties and MPs who opposed the BJP. The UPA returned to power in the 2009 general election with increased numbers, and it no longer required external support from India's communist parties . [ 236 ] That year, Manmohan Singh became the first prime minister since Jawaharlal Nehru in 1957 and 1962 to be re-elected to a consecutive five-year term. [ 237 ] In the 2014 general election , the BJP became the first political party since 1984 to win a majority and govern without the support of other parties. [ 238 ] In the 2019 general election , the BJP was victorious again with majority. In the 2024 general election , the BJP failed to achieve majority and the BJP-led NDA coalition formed the government . Narendra Modi , a former chief minister of Gujarat , is serving as the prime minister of India in his third term since May 26, 2014. [ 239 ] Government Main articles: Government of India and Constitution of India Rashtrapati Bhavan , the official residence of the President of India , was designed by British architects Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker for the Viceroy of India , and constructed between 1911 and 1931 during the British Raj . [ 240 ] India is a federation with a parliamentary system governed under the Constitution of India—the country's supreme legal document. It is a constitutional republic . Federalism in India defines the power distribution between the union and the states . The Constitution of India, which came into effect on 26 January 1950, [ 241 ] originally stated India to be a " democratic republic;" this characterisation was amended in 1971 to a " socialist , secular, democratic republic". [ 242 ] India's form of government, traditionally described as "quasi-federal" with a strong centre and weak states, [ 243 ] has grown increasingly federal since the late 1990s as a result of political, economic, and social changes. [ 244 ] [ 245 ] The Government of India comprises three branches: the Executive , Legislature , and Judiciary . [ 246 ] The President of India is the ceremonial head of state , [ 247 ] who is elected indirectly for a five-year term by an electoral college comprising members of national and state legislatures. [ 248 ] [ 249 ] The Prime Minister of India is the head of government and exercises most executive power . [ 250 ] Appointed by the president, [ 251 ] the prime minister is by convention supported by the party or political alliance having a majority of seats in the lower house of parliament. [ 250 ] The executive of the Indian government consists of the president, the vice-president , and the Union Council of Ministers —with the cabinet being its executive committee—headed by the prime minister. Any minister holding a portfolio must be a member of one of the houses of parliament. [ 247 ] In the Indian parliamentary system, the executive is subordinate to the legislature; the prime minister and their council are directly responsible to the lower house of the parliament. Civil servants act as permanent executives and all decisions of the executive are implemented by them. [ 252 ] The legislature of India is the bicameral parliament . Operating under a Westminster-style parliamentary system, it comprises an upper house called the Rajya Sabha (Council of States) and a lower house called the Lok Sabha (House of the People). [ 253 ] The Rajya Sabha is a permanent body of 245 members who serve staggered six-year terms with elections every 2 years. [ 254 ] Most are elected indirectly by the state and union territorial legislatures in numbers proportional to their state's share of the national population. [ 251 ] The Lok Sabha's 543 members are elected directly by popular vote among citizens aged at least 18; [ 255 ] they represent single-member constituencies for five-year terms. [ 256 ] The Indian constitution historically allowed for the nomination of Anglo-Indians to two seats in the Lok Sabha; this provision was removed in 2019. [ 255 ] [ 257 ] A number of seats from each state are reserved for candidates from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in proportion to their population within that state. [ 255 ] India has a three-tier unitary independent judiciary [ 258 ] comprising the supreme court , headed by the Chief Justice of India , 25 high courts , and a large number of trial courts. [ 258 ] The supreme court has original jurisdiction over cases involving fundamental rights and over disputes between states and the centre and has appellate jurisdiction over the high courts. [ 259 ] It has the power to both strike down union or state laws which contravene the constitution [ 260 ] and invalidate any government action it deems unconstitutional. [ 261 ] Administrative divisions Main article: Administrative divisions of India See also: Political integration of India India is a federal union comprising 28 states and 8 union territories . [ 12 ] All states, as well as the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir , Puducherry and the National Capital Territory of Delhi , have elected legislatures and governments following the Westminster system . The remaining five union territories are directly ruled by the central government through appointed administrators. In 1956, under the States Reorganisation Act , states were reorganised on a linguistic basis. [ 262 ] There are over a quarter of a million local government bodies at city, town, block, district and village levels. [ 263 ] A clickable map of the 28 states and 8 union territories of India States Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Odisha Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamil Nadu Telangana Tripura Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhand West Bengal Union territories Andaman and Nicobar Islands Chandigarh Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu Jammu and Kashmir Ladakh Lakshadweep National Capital Territory of Delhi Puducherry Foreign, economic, and strategic relations Main articles: Foreign relations of India and Indian Armed Forces During the 1950s and 60s, India played a pivotal role in the Non-Aligned Movement . [ 264 ] From left to right: Gamal Abdel Nasser of United Arab Republic (now Egypt), Josip Broz Tito of Yugoslavia and Jawaharlal Nehru in Belgrade, September 1961. In the 1950s, India strongly supported decolonisation in Africa and Asia and played a leading role in the Non-Aligned Movement . [ 265 ] After initially cordial relations with neighbouring China, India went to war with China in 1962 and was widely thought to have been humiliated. [ 266 ] This was followed by another military conflict in 1967 in which India successfully repelled Chinese attack. [ 267 ] India has had tense relations with neighbouring Pakistan. The two have gone to war four times: in 1947 , 1965 , 1971 , and 1999 . Three of these wars were fought over the disputed territory of Kashmir , while the third, the 1971 war, followed from India's support for the independence of Bangladesh . [ 268 ] In the late 1980s, the Indian military twice intervened abroad at the invitation of the host country: a peace-keeping operation in Sri Lanka between 1987 and 1990; and an armed intervention to prevent a 1988 coup d'état attempt in the Maldives. After the 1965 war with Pakistan, India began to pursue close military and economic ties with the Soviet Union ; by the late 1960s, the Soviet Union was its largest arms supplier. [ 269 ] Aside from its ongoing special relationship with Russia , [ 270 ] India has wide-ranging defence relations with Israel and France . In recent years, it has played key roles in the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation and the World Trade Organization . The nation has provided 100,000 military and police personnel to serve in 35 UN peacekeeping operations across four continents. It participates in the East Asia Summit , the G8+5 , and other multilateral forums. [ 271 ] India has close economic ties with countries in South America , [ 272 ] Asia, and Africa; it pursues a "Look East" policy that seeks to strengthen partnerships with the ASEAN nations, Japan , and South Korea that revolve around many issues, but especially those involving economic investment and regional security. [ 273 ] [ 274 ] The Indian Air Force contingent marching at the 221st Bastille Day military parade in Paris, on 14 July 2009. The parade at which India was the foreign guest was led by India's oldest regiment, the Maratha Light Infantry , founded in 1768. [ 275 ] China's nuclear test of 1964 , as well as its repeated threats to intervene in support of Pakistan in the 1965 war, convinced India to develop nuclear weapons. [ 276 ] India conducted its first nuclear weapons test in 1974 and carried out additional underground testing in 1998. Despite criticism and military sanctions, India has signed neither the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty nor the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty , considering both to be flawed and discriminatory. [ 277 ] India maintains a " no first use " nuclear policy and is developing a nuclear triad capability as a part of its " Minimum Credible Deterrence " doctrine. [ 278 ] [ 279 ] It is developing a ballistic missile defence shield and, a fifth-generation fighter jet . [ 280 ] [ 281 ] Other indigenous military projects involve the design and implementation of Vikrant -class aircraft carriers and Arihant -class nuclear submarines . [ 282 ] India is estimated to possess up to 172 nuclear warheads, and is considered to be producing both highly enriched uranium (HEU) and weapons-grade plutonium, with its HEU production assumed to be focused on its growing number of nuclear-powered vessels' and submarines' fuels. [ 283 ] [ 284 ] Kristensen et al. of Nuclear Information Project with the Federation of American Scientists estimate that India is operating eight nuclear-capable systems as of 2024, including aircraft, land-based and sea-based ballistic missile systems, with most of its programs in development thought to be nearing "completion and to be fielded with the armed forces soon". [ 283 ] Since the end of the Cold War , India has increased its economic, strategic, and military co-operation with the United States and the European Union . [ 285 ] In 2008, a civilian nuclear agreement was signed between India and the United States. Although India possessed nuclear weapons at the time and was not a party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, it received waivers from the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Nuclear Suppliers Group , ending earlier restrictions on India's nuclear technology and commerce. As a consequence, India became the sixth de facto nuclear weapons state. [ 286 ] India subsequently signed co-operation agreements involving civilian nuclear energy with Russia, [ 287 ] France, [ 288 ] the United Kingdom , [ 289 ] and Canada . [ 290 ] Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India (left, background) in talks with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico during a visit to Mexico, 2016 The President of India is the supreme commander of the nation's armed forces; with 1.45 million active troops, they compose the world's second-largest military . It comprises the Indian Army , the Indian Navy , the Indian Air Force , and the Indian Coast Guard . [ 291 ] The official Indian defence budget for 2011 was US$36.03 billion, or 1.83% of GDP. [ 292 ] Defence expenditure was pegged at US$70.12 billion for fiscal year 2022–23 and, increased 9.8% than previous fiscal year. [ 293 ] [ 294 ] India is the world's second-largest arms importer; between 2016 and 2020, it accounted for 9.5% of the total global arms imports. [ 295 ] Much of the military expenditure was focused on defence against Pakistan and countering growing Chinese influence in the Indian Ocean. [ 296 ] In May 2017, the Indian Space Research Organisation launched the South Asia Satellite , a gift from India to its neighbouring SAARC countries. [ 297 ] In October 2018, India signed a US$5.43 billion (over ₹ 400 billion) agreement with Russia to procure four S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile defence systems, Russia's most advanced long-range missile defence system. [ 298 ] Economy Main article: Economy of India A farmer in northwestern Karnataka ploughs his field with a tractor even as another in a field beyond does the same with a pair of oxen.  In 2019, 43% of India's total workforce was employed in agriculture. [ 299 ] India is the world's largest producer of milk, with the largest population of cattle.  In 2018, nearly 80% of India's milk was sourced from small farms with herd size between one and two, the milk harvested by hand milking. [ 301 ] Women tend to a recently planted rice field in Junagadh district in Gujarat. 55% of India's female workforce was employed in agriculture in 2019. [ 300 ] According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Indian economy in 2024 was nominally worth $3.94 trillion; it was the fifth-largest economy by market exchange rates and is, at around $15.0 trillion, the third-largest by purchasing power parity (PPP). [ 17 ] With its average annual GDP growth rate of 5.8% over the past two decades, and reaching 6.1% during 2011–2012, [ 302 ] India is one of the world's fastest-growing economies . [ 303 ] However, due to its low GDP per capita—which ranks 136th in the world in nominal per capita income and 125th in per capita income adjusted for purchasing power parity (PPP)—the vast majority of Indians fall into the low-income group. [ 304 ] [ 305 ] Until 1991, all Indian governments followed protectionist policies that were influenced by socialist economics. Widespread state intervention and regulation largely walled the economy off from the outside world. An acute balance of payments crisis in 1991 forced the nation to liberalise its economy ; [ 306 ] since then, it has moved increasingly towards a free-market system [ 307 ] [ 308 ] by emphasising both foreign trade and direct investment inflows. [ 309 ] India has been a member of World Trade Organization since 1 January 1995. [ 310 ] The 522-million-worker Indian labour force is the world's second largest , as of 2017 [update] . [ 291 ] The service sector makes up 55.6% of GDP, the industrial sector 26.3% and the agricultural sector 18.1%. India's foreign exchange remittances of US$100 billion in 2022, [ 311 ] highest in the world, were contributed to its economy by 32 million Indians working in foreign countries. [ 312 ] Major agricultural products include rice, wheat, oilseed, cotton, jute, tea, sugarcane, and potatoes. [ 12 ] Major industries include textiles, telecommunications, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, food processing, steel, transport equipment, cement, mining, petroleum, machinery, and software. [ 12 ] In 2006, the share of external trade in India's GDP stood at 24%, up from 6% in 1985. [ 307 ] In 2008, India's share of world trade was 1.7%; [ 313 ] In 2021, India was the world's ninth-largest importer and the sixteenth-largest exporter . [ 314 ] Major exports include petroleum products, textile goods, jewellery, software, engineering goods, chemicals, and manufactured leather goods. [ 12 ] Major imports include crude oil, machinery, gems, fertiliser, and chemicals. [ 12 ] Between 2001 and 2011, the contribution of petrochemical and engineering goods to total exports grew from 14% to 42%. [ 315 ] India was the world's second-largest textile exporter after China in the 2013 calendar year. [ 316 ] Averaging an economic growth rate of 7.5% for several years prior to 2007, [ 307 ] India has more than doubled its hourly wage rates during the first decade of the 21st century. [ 317 ] Some 431 million Indians have left poverty since 1985; India's middle classes are projected to number around 580 million by 2030. [ 318 ] Though ranking 68th in global competitiveness , [ 319 ] as of 2010 [update] , India ranks 17th in financial market sophistication, 24th in the banking sector, 44th in business sophistication, and 39th in innovation, ahead of several advanced economies. [ 320 ] With seven of the world's top 15 information technology outsourcing companies based in India, as of 2009 [update] , the country is viewed as the second-most favourable outsourcing destination after the United States. [ 321 ] India is ranked 39th in the Global Innovation Index in 2024. [ 322 ] In 2023, India's consumer market was the world's fifth largest . [ 323 ] Driven by growth, India's nominal GDP per capita increased steadily from US$308 in 1991, when economic liberalisation began, to US$1,380 in 2010, to an estimated US$2,731 in 2024. It is expected to grow to US$3,264 by 2026. [ 17 ] However, it has remained lower than those of other Asian developing countries such as Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Thailand, and is expected to remain so in the near future. A panorama of Bengaluru , the centre of India's software development economy.  In the 1980s, when the first multinational corporations began to set up centres in India, they chose Bengaluru (then called Bangalore) because of the large pool of skilled graduates in the area, in turn due to the many science and engineering colleges in the surrounding region. [ 324 ] According to a 2011 PricewaterhouseCoopers ( PwC ) report, India's GDP at purchasing power parity could overtake that of the United States by 2045. [ 325 ] During the next four decades, Indian GDP is expected to grow at an annualised average of 8%, making it potentially the world's fastest-growing major economy until 2050. [ 325 ] The report highlights key growth factors: a young and rapidly growing working-age population; growth in the manufacturing sector because of rising education and engineering skill levels; and sustained growth of the consumer market driven by a rapidly growing middle-class. [ 325 ] The World Bank cautions that, for India to achieve its economic potential, it must continue to focus on public sector reform, transport infrastructure , agricultural and rural development, removal of labour regulations, education , energy security , and public health and nutrition. [ 326 ] According to the Worldwide Cost of Living Report 2017 released by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) which was created by comparing more than 400 individual prices across 160 products and services, four of the cheapest cities were in India: Bengaluru (3rd), Mumbai (5th), Chennai (5th) and New Delhi (8th). [ 327 ] Industries A tea garden in Sikkim. India, the world's second-largest producer of tea, is a nation of one billion tea drinkers, who consume 70% of India's tea output. India's telecommunication industry is the second-largest in the world with over 1.2 billion subscribers. It contributes 6.5% to India's GDP. [ 328 ] After the third quarter of 2017, India surpassed the US to become the second-largest smartphone market in the world after China. [ 329 ] The Indian automotive industry , the world's second-fastest growing, increased domestic sales by 26% during 2009–2010, [ 330 ] and exports by 36% during 2008–2009. [ 331 ] In 2022, India became the world's third-largest vehicle market after China and the United States, surpassing Japan. [ 332 ] At the end of 2011, the Indian IT industry employed 2.8 million professionals, generated revenues close to US$100 billion equalling 7.5% of Indian GDP, and contributed 26% of India's merchandise exports. [ 333 ] The pharmaceutical industry in India emerged as a global player. As of 2021, with 3000 pharmaceutical companies and 10,500 manufacturing units, India is the world's third-largest pharmaceutical producer, largest producer of generic medicines and supply up to 50–60% of global vaccines demand, these all contribute up to US$ 24.44 billions in exports and India's local pharmaceutical market is estimated up to US$ 42 billion. [ 334 ] [ 335 ] India is among the top 12 biotech destinations in the world. [ 336 ] [ 337 ] The Indian biotech industry grew by 15.1% in 2012–2013, increasing its revenues from ₹ 204.4 billion ( Indian rupees ) to ₹ 235.24 billion (US$3.94 billion at June 2013 exchange rates). [ 338 ] Energy Main articles: Energy in India and Energy policy of India India's capacity to generate electrical power is 300 gigawatts, of which 42 gigawatts is renewable . [ 339 ] The country's usage of coal is a major cause of greenhouse gas emissions by India but its renewable energy is competing strongly. [ 340 ] India emits about 7% of global greenhouse gas emissions. This equates to about 2.5 tons of carbon dioxide per person per year, which is half the world average. [ 341 ] [ 342 ] Increasing access to electricity and clean cooking with liquefied petroleum gas have been priorities for energy in India. [ 343 ] Socio-economic challenges Health workers about to begin another day of immunisation against infectious diseases in 2006.  Eight years later, and three years after India's last case of polio, the World Health Organization declared India to be polio-free. [ 344 ] Despite economic growth during recent decades, India continues to face socio-economic challenges. In 2006, India contained the largest number of people living below the World Bank's international poverty line of US$1.25 per day. [ 345 ] The proportion decreased from 60% in 1981 to 42% in 2005. [ 346 ] Under the World Bank's later revised poverty line, it was 21% in 2011. [ q ] [ 348 ] 30.7% of India's children under the age of five are underweight. [ 349 ] According to a Food and Agriculture Organization report in 2015, 15% of the population is undernourished. [ 350 ] [ 351 ] The Midday Meal Scheme attempts to lower these rates. [ 352 ] A 2018 Walk Free Foundation report estimated that nearly 8 million people in India were living in different forms of modern slavery , such as bonded labour , child labour , human trafficking, and forced begging. [ 353 ] According to the 2011 census, there were 10.1 million child labourers in the country, a decline of 2.6 million from 12.6 million in 2001. [ 354 ] Since 1991, economic inequality between India's states has consistently grown: the per-capita net state domestic product of the richest states in 2007 was 3.2 times that of the poorest. [ 355 ] Corruption in India is perceived to have decreased. According to the Corruption Perceptions Index , India ranked 78th out of 180 countries in 2018, an improvement from 85th in 2014. [ 356 ] [ 357 ] Demographics, languages, and religion Main articles: Demographics of India , Languages of India , and Religion in India See also: South Asian ethnic groups India by language The language families of South Asia With an estimated 1,428,627,663 residents in 2023, India is the world's most populous country. [ 13 ] 1,210,193,422 residents were reported in the 2011 provisional census report . [ 358 ] Its population grew by 17.64% from 2001 to 2011, [ 359 ] compared to 21.54% growth in the previous decade (1991–2001). [ 359 ] The human sex ratio, according to the 2011 census, is 940 females per 1,000 males. [ 358 ] The median age was 28.7 in 2020. [ 291 ] The first post-colonial census, conducted in 1951, counted 361 million people. [ 360 ] Medical advances made in the last 50 years as well as increased agricultural productivity brought about by the " Green Revolution " have caused India's population to grow rapidly. [ 361 ] The life expectancy in India is at 70 years—71.5 years for women, 68.7 years for men. [ 291 ] There are around 93 physicians per 100,000 people. [ 362 ] Migration from rural to urban areas has been an important dynamic in India's recent history. The number of people living in urban areas grew by 31.2% between 1991 and 2001. [ 363 ] Yet, in 2001, over 70% still lived in rural areas. [ 364 ] [ 365 ] The level of urbanisation increased further from 27.81% in the 2001 Census to 31.16% in the 2011 Census. The slowing down of the overall population growth rate was due to the sharp decline in the growth rate in rural areas since 1991. [ 366 ] According to the 2011 census, there are 53 million-plus urban agglomerations in India ; among them Mumbai , Delhi , Kolkata , Chennai , Bengaluru , Hyderabad and Ahmedabad , in decreasing order by population. [ 367 ] The literacy rate in 2011 was 74.04%: 65.46% among females and 82.14% among males. [ 368 ] The rural-urban literacy gap, which was 21.2 percentage points in 2001, dropped to 16.1 percentage points in 2011. The improvement in the rural literacy rate is twice that of urban areas. [ 366 ] Kerala is the most literate state with 93.91% literacy; while Bihar the least with 63.82%. [ 368 ] The interior of San Thome Basilica , Chennai , Tamil Nadu .  Christianity is believed to have been introduced to India by the late 2nd century by Syriac-speaking Christians . Among speakers of the Indian languages , 74% speak Indo-Aryan languages , the easternmost branch of the Indo-European languages ; 24% speak Dravidian languages , indigenous to South Asia and spoken widely before the spread of Indo-Aryan languages and 2% speak Austroasiatic languages or the Sino-Tibetan languages . India has no national language. [ 369 ] Hindi , with the largest number of speakers, is the official language of the government. [ 370 ] [ 371 ] English is used extensively in business and administration and has the status of a "subsidiary official language"; [ 6 ] it is important in education , especially as a medium of higher education. Each state and union territory has one or more official languages, and the constitution recognises in particular 22 "scheduled languages". The 2011 census reported the religion in India with the largest number of followers was Hinduism (79.80% of the population), followed by Islam (14.23%); the remaining were Christianity (2.30%), Sikhism (1.72%), Buddhism (0.70%), Jainism (0.36%) and others [ r ] (0.9%). [ 11 ] India has the third-largest Muslim population—the largest for a non-Muslim majority country. [ 372 ] [ 373 ] Culture Main article: Culture of India A Sikh pilgrim at the Harmandir Sahib , or Golden Temple, in Amritsar , Punjab Indian cultural history spans more than 4,500 years . [ 374 ] During the Vedic period ( c. 1700 BCE – c. 500 BCE ), the foundations of Hindu philosophy , mythology , theology and literature were laid, and many beliefs and practices which still exist today, such as dhárma , kárma , yóga , and mokṣa , were established. [ 74 ] India is notable for its religious diversity , with Hinduism , Buddhism , Sikhism , Islam , Christianity , and Jainism among the nation's major religions. [ 375 ] The predominant religion, Hinduism, has been shaped by various historical schools of thought, including those of the Upanishads , [ 376 ] the Yoga Sutras , the Bhakti movement , [ 375 ] and by Buddhist philosophy . [ 377 ] Visual art Main article: Indian art India has a very ancient tradition of art, which has exchanged many influences with the rest of Eurasia , especially in the first millennium, when Buddhist art spread with Indian religions to Central , East and Southeast Asia , the last also greatly influenced by Hindu art. [ 378 ] Thousands of seals from the Indus Valley Civilization of the third millennium BCE have been found, usually carved with animals, but a few with human figures. The "Pashupati" seal , excavated in Mohenjo-daro , Pakistan, in 1928–29, is the best known. [ 379 ] [ 380 ] After this there is a long period with virtually nothing surviving. [ 380 ] [ 381 ] Almost all surviving ancient Indian art thereafter is in various forms of religious sculpture in durable materials, or coins. There was probably originally far more in wood, which is lost. In north India Mauryan art is the first imperial movement. [ 382 ] [ 383 ] [ 384 ] In the first millennium CE, Buddhist art spread with Indian religions to Central , East and Southeast Asia , the last also greatly influenced by Hindu art . [ 385 ] Over the following centuries a distinctly Indian style of sculpting the human figure developed, with less interest in articulating precise anatomy than ancient Greek sculpture but showing smoothly flowing forms expressing prana ("breath" or life-force). [ 386 ] [ 387 ] This is often complicated by the need to give figures multiple arms or heads, or represent different genders on the left and right of figures, as with the Ardhanarishvara form of Shiva and Parvati . [ 388 ] [ 389 ] Most of the earliest large sculpture is Buddhist, either excavated from Buddhist stupas such as Sanchi , Sarnath and Amaravati , [ 390 ] or is rock cut reliefs at sites such as Ajanta , Karla and Ellora . Hindu and Jain sites appear rather later. [ 391 ] [ 392 ] In spite of this complex mixture of religious traditions, generally, the prevailing artistic style at any time and place has been shared by the major religious groups, and sculptors probably usually served all communities. [ 393 ] Gupta art , at its peak c. 300 CE – c. 500 CE , is often regarded as a classical period whose influence lingered for many centuries after; it saw a new dominance of Hindu sculpture, as at the Elephanta Caves . [ 394 ] [ 395 ] Across the north, this became rather stiff and formulaic after c. 800 CE , though rich with finely carved detail in the surrounds of statues. [ 396 ] But in the South, under the Pallava and Chola dynasties , sculpture in both stone and bronze had a sustained period of great achievement ; the large bronzes with Shiva as Nataraja have become an iconic symbol of India. [ 397 ] [ 398 ] Ancient painting has only survived at a few sites, of which the crowded scenes of court life in the Ajanta Caves are by far the most important, but it was evidently highly developed, and is mentioned as a courtly accomplishment in Gupta times. [ 399 ] [ 400 ] Painted manuscripts of religious texts survive from Eastern India about the 10th century onwards, most of the earliest being Buddhist and later Jain. No doubt the style of these was used in larger paintings. [ 401 ] The Persian-derived Deccan painting , starting just before the Mughal miniature , between them give the first large body of secular painting, with an emphasis on portraits, and the recording of princely pleasures and wars. [ 402 ] [ 403 ] The style spread to Hindu courts, especially among the Rajputs , and developed a variety of styles, with the smaller courts often the most innovative, with figures such as Nihâl Chand and Nainsukh . [ 404 ] [ 405 ] As a market developed among European residents, it was supplied by Company painting by Indian artists with considerable Western influence. [ 406 ] [ 407 ] In the 19th century, cheap Kalighat paintings of gods and everyday life, done on paper, were urban folk art from Calcutta , which later saw the Bengal School of Art , reflecting the art colleges founded by the British, the first movement in modern Indian painting . [ 408 ] [ 409 ] Bhutesvara Yakshis , Buddhist reliefs from Mathura , 2nd century CE Gupta terracotta relief, Krishna Killing the Horse Demon Keshi , 5th century Elephanta Caves , triple- bust ( trimurti ) of Shiva, 18 feet (5.5 m) tall, c. 550 Chola bronze of Shiva as Nataraja ("Lord of Dance"), Tamil Nadu , 10th or 11th century Jahangir Receives Prince Khurram at Ajmer on His Return from the Mewar Campaign , Balchand, c. 1635 Krishna Fluting to the Milkmaids , Kangra painting , 1775–1785 Architecture Main article: Architecture of India The Taj Mahal from across the Yamuna river showing two outlying red sandstone buildings, a mosque on the right (west) and a jawab (response) thought to have been built for architectural balance Much of Indian architecture, including the Taj Mahal , other works of Indo-Islamic Mughal architecture , and South Indian architecture , blends ancient local traditions with imported styles. [ 410 ] Vernacular architecture is also regional in its flavours. Vastu shastra , literally "science of construction" or "architecture" and ascribed to Mamuni Mayan , [ 411 ] explores how the laws of nature affect human dwellings; [ 412 ] it employs precise geometry and directional alignments to reflect perceived cosmic constructs. [ 413 ] As applied in Hindu temple architecture , it is influenced by the Shilpa Shastras , a series of foundational texts whose basic mythological form is the Vastu-Purusha mandala , a square that embodied the " absolute ". [ 414 ] The Taj Mahal, built in Agra between 1631 and 1648 by orders of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan in memory of his wife, has been described in the UNESCO World Heritage List as "the jewel of Muslim art in India and one of the universally admired masterpieces of the world's heritage". [ 415 ] Indo-Saracenic Revival architecture , developed by the British in the late 19th century, drew on Indo-Islamic architecture . [ 416 ] Literature Main article: Indian literature The earliest literature in India, composed between 1500 BCE and 1200 CE , was in the Sanskrit language. [ 417 ] Major works of Sanskrit literature include the Rigveda ( c. 1500 BCE – c. 1200 BCE ), the epics : Mahābhārata ( c. 400 BCE – c. 400 CE ) and the Ramayana ( c. 300 BCE and later); Abhijñānaśākuntalam ( The Recognition of Śakuntalā , and other dramas of Kālidāsa ( c. 5th century CE ) and Mahākāvya poetry. [ 418 ] [ 419 ] [ 420 ] In Tamil literature , the Sangam literature ( c. 600 BCE – c. 300 BCE ) consisting of 2,381 poems, composed by 473 poets, is the earliest work. [ 421 ] [ 422 ] [ 423 ] [ 424 ] From the 14th to the 18th centuries, India's literary traditions went through a period of drastic change because of the emergence of devotional poets like Kabīr , Tulsīdās , and Guru Nānak . This period was characterised by a varied and wide spectrum of thought and expression; as a consequence, medieval Indian literary works differed significantly from classical traditions. [ 425 ] In the 19th century, Indian writers took a new interest in social questions and psychological descriptions. In the 20th century, Indian literature was influenced by the works of Rabindranath Tagore , [ 426 ] who was a recipient of the Nobel Prize in Literature . Performing arts and media Main articles: Music of India , Dance in India , Cinema of India , and Television in India India's National Academy of Performance Arts has recognised eight Indian dance styles to be classical .  One such is Kuchipudi shown here. Indian music ranges over various traditions and regional styles. Classical music encompasses two genres and their various folk offshoots: the northern Hindustani and the southern Carnatic schools. [ 427 ] Regionalised popular forms include filmi and folk music ; the syncretic tradition of the bauls is a well-known form of the latter. Indian dance also features diverse folk and classical forms. Among the better-known folk dances are: bhangra of Punjab, bihu of Assam, Jhumair and chhau of Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal, garba and dandiya of Gujarat, ghoomar of Rajasthan, and lavani of Maharashtra. Eight dance forms, many with narrative forms and mythological elements, have been accorded classical dance status by India's National Academy of Music, Dance, and Drama . These are: bharatanatyam of the state of Tamil Nadu, kathak of Uttar Pradesh, kathakali and mohiniyattam of Kerala, kuchipudi of Andhra Pradesh, manipuri of Manipur, odissi of Odisha, and the sattriya of Assam. [ 428 ] Theatre in India melds music, dance, and improvised or written dialogue. [ 429 ] Often based on Hindu mythology, but also borrowing from medieval romances or social and political events, Indian theatre includes: the bhavai of Gujarat, the jatra of West Bengal, the nautanki and ramlila of North India, tamasha of Maharashtra, burrakatha of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, terukkuttu of Tamil Nadu, and the yakshagana of Karnataka. [ 430 ] India has a theatre training institute, the National School of Drama (NSD), in New Delhi . [ 431 ] The Indian film industry produces the world's most-watched cinema. [ 432 ] Established regional cinematic traditions exist in the Assamese , Bengali , Bhojpuri , Hindi , Kannada , Malayalam , Punjabi , Gujarati , Marathi , Odia , Tamil , and Telugu languages. [ 433 ] The Hindi language film industry ( Bollywood ) is the largest sector representing 43% of box office revenue, followed by the South Indian Telugu and Tamil film industries which represent 36% combined. [ 434 ] Television broadcasting began in India in 1959 as a state-run medium of communication and expanded slowly for more than two decades. [ 435 ] [ 436 ] The state monopoly on television broadcast ended in the 1990s. Since then, satellite channels have increasingly shaped the popular culture of Indian society. [ 437 ] Today, television is the most penetrative media in India; industry estimates indicate that as of 2012 [update] there are over 554 million TV consumers, 462 million with satellite or cable connections compared to other forms of mass media such as the press (350 million), radio (156 million) or internet (37 million). [ 438 ] Society Muslims offer namaz at a mosque in Srinagar , Jammu and Kashmir. Traditional Indian society is sometimes defined by social hierarchy. The Indian caste system embodies much of the social stratification and many of the social restrictions found on the Indian subcontinent. Social classes are defined by thousands of endogamous hereditary groups, often termed as jātis , or "castes". [ 439 ] India abolished untouchability in 1950 with the adoption of the constitution and has since enacted other anti-discriminatory laws and social welfare initiatives. Family values are important in the Indian tradition, and multi-generational patrilineal joint families have been the norm in India, though nuclear families are becoming common in urban areas. [ 440 ] An overwhelming majority of Indians, with their consent, have their marriages arranged by their parents or other family elders. [ 441 ] Marriage is thought to be for life, [ 441 ] and the divorce rate is extremely low, [ 442 ] with less than one in a thousand marriages ending in divorce. [ 443 ] Child marriages are common, especially in rural areas; many women wed before reaching 18, which is their legal marriageable age. [ 444 ] Female infanticide in India , and lately female foeticide , have created skewed gender ratios; the number of missing women in the country quadrupled from 15 million to 63 million in the 50-year period ending in 2014, faster than the population growth during the same period. [ 445 ] According to an Indian government study, an additional 21 million girls are unwanted and do not receive adequate care. [ 446 ] Despite a government ban on sex-selective foeticide, the practice remains commonplace in India, the result of a preference for boys in a patriarchal society. [ 447 ] The payment of dowry , although illegal , remains widespread across class lines. [ 448 ] Deaths resulting from dowry , mostly from bride burning , are on the rise, despite stringent anti-dowry laws. [ 449 ] Many Indian festivals are religious in origin. The best known include Diwali , Ganesh Chaturthi , Thai Pongal , Holi , Durga Puja , Eid ul-Fitr , Bakr-Id , Christmas , and Vaisakhi . [ 450 ] [ 451 ] Education Main articles: Education in India , Literacy in India , and History of education in the Indian subcontinent Children awaiting school lunch in Rayka (also Raika), a village in rural Gujarat. The salutation Jai Bhim written on the blackboard honours the jurist, social reformer, and Dalit leader B. R. Ambedkar . In the 2011 census, about 73% of the population was literate, with 81% for men and 65% for women. This compares to 1981 when the respective rates were 41%, 53% and 29%. In 1951 the rates were 18%, 27% and 9%. In 1921 the rates 7%, 12% and 2%. In 1891 they were 5%, 9% and 1%, [ 452 ] [ 453 ] According to Latika Chaudhary, in 1911 there were under three primary schools for every ten villages. Statistically, more caste and religious diversity reduced private spending. Primary schools taught literacy, so local diversity limited its growth. [ 454 ] The education system of India is the world's second-largest. [ 455 ] India has over 900 universities, 40,000 colleges [ 456 ] and 1.5 million schools. [ 457 ] In India's higher education system, a significant number of seats are reserved under affirmative action policies for the historically disadvantaged. In recent decades India's improved education system is often cited as one of the main contributors to its economic development . [ 458 ] [ 459 ] Clothing Main article: Clothing in India Women in sari at an adult literacy class in Tamil Nadu A man in dhoti and wearing a woollen shawl, in Varanasi From ancient times until the advent of the modern, the most widely worn traditional dress in India was draped . [ 460 ] For women it took the form of a sari , a single piece of cloth many yards long. [ 460 ] The sari was traditionally wrapped around the lower body and the shoulder. [ 460 ] In its modern form, it is combined with an underskirt, or Indian petticoat , and tucked in the waist band for more secure fastening. It is also commonly worn with an Indian blouse , or choli , which serves as the primary upper-body garment, the sari's end—passing over the shoulder—covering the midriff and obscuring the upper body's contours. [ 460 ] For men, a similar but shorter length of cloth, the dhoti , has served as a lower-body garment. [ 461 ] The use of stitched clothes became widespread after Muslim rule was established at first by the Delhi sultanate ( c. 1300 CE ) and then continued by the Mughal Empire ( c. 1525 CE ). [ 462 ] Among the garments introduced during this time and still commonly worn are: the shalwars and pyjamas , both styles of trousers, and the tunics kurta and kameez . [ 462 ] In southern India, the traditional draped garments were to see much longer continuous use. [ 462 ] Women (from left to right) in churidars and kameez (with back to the camera), jeans and sweater, and pink shalwar kameez Salwars are atypically wide at the waist but narrow to a cuffed bottom. They are held up by a drawstring, which causes them to become pleated around the waist. [ 463 ] The pants can be wide and baggy, or they can be cut quite narrow, on the bias , in which case they are called churidars . When they are ordinarily wide at the waist and their bottoms are hemmed but not cuffed, they are called pyjamas. The kameez is a long shirt or tunic, [ 464 ] its side seams left open below the waistline. [ 465 ] The kurta is traditionally collarless and made of cotton or silk; it is worn plain or with embroidered decoration, such as chikan ; and typically falls to either just above or just below the wearer's knees. [ 466 ] In the last 50 years, fashions have changed a great deal in India. Increasingly, in urban northern India, the sari is no longer the apparel of everyday wear, though they remain popular on formal occasions. [ 467 ] The traditional shalwar kameez is rarely worn by younger urban women, who favour churidars or jeans. [ 467 ] In office settings, ubiquitous air conditioning allows men to wear sports jackets year-round. [ 467 ] For weddings and formal occasions, men in the middle- and upper classes often wear bandgala , or short Nehru jackets , with pants, with the groom and his groomsmen sporting sherwanis and churidars. [ 467 ] The dhoti, once the universal garment of Hindu males, the wearing of which in the homespun and handwoven khadi allowed Gandhi to bring Indian nationalism to the millions, [ 468 ] is seldom seen in the cities. [ 467 ] Cuisine Main article: Indian cuisine South Indian vegetarian thali , or platter Railway mutton curry from Odisha The foundation of a typical Indian meal is a cereal cooked in a plain fashion and complemented with flavourful savoury dishes. [ 469 ] The cooked cereal could be steamed rice; chapati , a thin unleavened bread; [ 470 ] the idli , a steamed breakfast cake; or dosa , a griddled pancake. [ 471 ] The savoury dishes might include lentils , pulses and vegetables commonly spiced with ginger and garlic , but also with a combination of spices that may include coriander , cumin , turmeric , cinnamon , cardamon and others. [ 469 ] They might also include poultry, fish, or meat dishes. In some instances, the ingredients might be mixed during the process of cooking. [ 472 ] A platter, or thali , used for eating usually has a central place reserved for the cooked cereal, and peripheral ones for the flavourful accompaniments. The cereal and its accompaniments are eaten simultaneously rather than a piecemeal manner. This is accomplished by mixing—for example of rice and lentils—or folding, wrapping, scooping or dipping—such as chapati and cooked vegetables. [ 469 ] A tandoor chef in the Turkman Gate , Old Delhi , makes Khameeri roti (a Muslim-influenced style of leavened bread ). [ 473 ] India has distinctive vegetarian cuisines, each a feature of the geographical and cultural histories of its adherents. [ 474 ] The appearance of ahimsa , or the avoidance of violence toward all forms of life in many religious orders early in Indian history, especially Upanishadic Hinduism , Buddhism and Jainism , is thought to have contributed to the predominance of vegetarianism among a large segment of India's Hindu population, especially in southern India, Gujarat, the Hindi -speaking belt of north-central India, as well as among Jains. [ 474 ] Although meat is eaten widely in India, the proportional consumption of meat in the overall diet is low. [ 475 ] Unlike China, which has increased its per capita meat consumption substantially in its years of increased economic growth, in India the strong dietary traditions have contributed to dairy, rather than meat, becoming the preferred form of animal protein consumption. [ 476 ] The most significant import of cooking techniques into India during the last millennium occurred during the Mughal Empire . Dishes such as the pilaf , [ 477 ] developed in the Abbasid caliphate , [ 478 ] and cooking techniques such as the marinating of meat in yogurt, spread into northern India from regions to its northwest. [ 479 ] To the simple yogurt marinade of Persia, onions, garlic, almonds, and spices began to be added in India. [ 479 ] Rice was partially cooked and layered alternately with the sauteed meat, the pot sealed tightly, and slow cooked according to another Persian cooking technique, to produce what has today become biryani , [ 479 ] a feature of festive dining in many parts of India. [ 480 ] In the food served in Indian restaurants worldwide the diversity of Indian food has been partially concealed by the dominance of Punjabi cuisine . The popularity of tandoori chicken —cooked in the tandoor oven, which had traditionally been used for baking bread in the rural Punjab and the Delhi region, especially among Muslims, but which is originally from Central Asia —dates to the 1950s, and was caused in large part by an entrepreneurial response among people from the Punjab who had been displaced by the 1947 partition. [ 474 ] Sports and recreation Main article: Sport in India See also: Indian physical culture Girls play hopscotch in Jaora , Madhya Pradesh.  Hopscotch has been commonly played by girls in rural India. [ 481 ] Several traditional sports —such as kabaddi , kho kho , pehlwani , gilli-danda , hopscotch and martial arts such as Kalarippayattu and marma adi — remain popular. Chess is commonly held to have originated in India as chaturaṅga ; [ 482 ] in recent years, there has been a rise in the number of Indian grandmasters , [ 483 ] and world champions. [ 484 ] Parcheesi is derived from Pachisi , another traditional Indian pastime, which in early modern times was played on a giant marble court by Mughal emperor Akbar the Great . [ 485 ] Cricket is the most popular sport in India. [ 486 ] India has won two Cricket World Cups , the 1983 edition and the 2011 edition . India has won eight field hockey gold medals in the summer Olympics . [ 487 ] India has participated in shooting sports and has won several medals at the Olympics , the World Shooting Championships , and the Commonwealth Games. [ 488 ] [ 489 ] Other sports in which Indians have succeeded internationally include badminton , [ 490 ] boxing, [ 491 ] and wrestling. [ 492 ] Football is popular in West Bengal , Goa , Tamil Nadu , Kerala , and the north-eastern states . The major domestic league is the Indian Premier League . Professional leagues in other sports include the Indian Super League ( football ) and the Pro Kabaddi League . [ 493 ] [ 494 ] [ 495 ] See also Administrative divisions of India Outline of India Portals : India Countries Asia Notes ^ Originally written in Sanskritised Bengali and adopted as the national anthem in its Hindi translation ^ "[...] Jana Gana Mana is the National Anthem of India, subject to such alterations in the words as the Government may authorise as occasion arises; and the song Vande Mataram , which has played a historic part in the struggle for Indian freedom, shall be honoured equally with Jana Gana Mana and shall have equal status with it." [ 5 ] ^ Written in a mixture of Sanskrit and Sanskritised Bengali ^ According to Part XVII of the Constitution of India , Hindi in the Devanagari script is the official language of the Union, along with English as an additional official language. [ 1 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] States and union territories can have a different official language of their own other than Hindi or English. ^ Not all the state-level official languages are in the eighth schedule and not all the scheduled languages are state-level official languages. For example, the Sindhi language is an 8th scheduled but not a state-level official language. ^ Kashmiri and Dogri language are the official languages of Jammu and Kashmir which is currently a union territory and no longer the former state . ^ According to Ethnologue , there are 424 living indigenous languages in India, in contrast to 11 extinct indigenous languages. In addition, there are also 29 living non-indigenous languages. [ 10 ] Different sources give widely differing figures, primarily based on how the terms "language" and "dialect" are defined and grouped. ^ "The country's exact size is subject to debate because some borders are disputed. The Indian government lists the total area as 3,287,260 km 2 (1,269,220 sq mi) and the total land area as 3,060,500 km 2 (1,181,700 sq mi); the United Nations lists the total area as 3,287,263 km 2 (1,269,219 sq mi) and total land area as 2,973,190 km 2 (1,147,960 sq mi)." [ 12 ] ^ See Date and time notation in India . ^ ISO : Bhārat Gaṇarājya ^ The Government of India also regards Afghanistan as a bordering country, as it considers all of Kashmir to be part of India. However, this is disputed , and the region bordering Afghanistan is administered by Pakistan. [ 27 ] ^ "A Chinese pilgrim also recorded evidence of the caste system as he could observe it. According to this evidence the treatment meted out to untouchables such as the Chandalas was very similar to that which they experienced in later periods. This would contradict assertions that this rigid form of the caste system emerged in India only as a reaction to the Islamic conquest." [ 42 ] ^ "Shah Jahan eventually sent her body 800 km (500 mi) to Agra for burial in the Rauza-i Munauwara ("Illuminated Tomb") – a personal tribute and a stone manifestation of his imperial power. This tomb has been celebrated globally as the Taj Mahal." [ 50 ] ^ The northernmost point under Indian control is the disputed Siachen Glacier in Jammu and Kashmir ; however, the Government of India regards the entire region of the former princely state of Jammu and Kashmir, including the Gilgit-Baltistan administered by Pakistan, to be its territory. It therefore assigns the latitude 37° 6′ to its northernmost point. ^ A biodiversity hotspot is a biogeographical region which has more than 1,500 vascular plant species, but less than 30% of its primary habitat. [ 200 ] ^ A forest cover is moderately dense if between 40% and 70% of its area is covered by its tree canopy. ^ In 2015, the World Bank raised its international poverty line to $1.90 per day. [ 347 ] ^ Besides specific religions, the last two categories in the 2011 Census were "Other religions and persuasions" (0.65%) and "Religion not stated" (0.23%). References ^ a b c National Informatics Centre 2005 . ^ a b c d "National Symbols | National Portal of India" . India.gov.in . Archived from the original on 4 February 2017 . Retrieved 1 March 2017 . The National Anthem of India Jana Gana Mana, composed originally in Bengali by Rabindranath Tagore, was adopted in its Hindi version by the Constituent Assembly as the National Anthem of India on 24 January 1950. ^ "National anthem of India: a brief on 'Jana Gana Mana' " . News18 . 14 August 2012. Archived from the original on 17 April 2019 . Retrieved 7 June 2019 . ^ Wolpert 2003 , p. 1. ^ Constituent Assembly of India 1950 . ^ a b Ministry of Home Affairs 1960 . ^ "Profile | National Portal of India" . India.gov.in . Archived from the original on 30 August 2013 . Retrieved 23 August 2013 . ^ "Constitutional Provisions – Official Language Related Part-17 of the Constitution of India" . Department of Official Language via Government of India . Archived from the original on 18 April 2021 . Retrieved 18 April 2021 . ^ "50th Report of the Commissioner for Linguistic Minorities in India (July 2012 to June 2013)" (PDF) . Commissioner for Linguistic Minorities, Ministry of Minority Affairs , Government of India . Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 July 2016 . Retrieved 26 December 2014 . ^ Eberhard, David M.; Simons, Gary F.; Fennig, Charles D. (2024). "India" . Ethnologue: Languages of the World (27 ed.). ^ a b "C −1 Population by religious community – 2011" . Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner . Archived from the original on 25 August 2015 . Retrieved 25 August 2015 . ^ a b c d e f Library of Congress 2004 . ^ a b "World Population Prospects" . Population Division – United Nations . Retrieved 2 July 2023 . ^ "Population Enumeration Data (Final Population)" . 2011 Census Data . Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India . Archived from the original on 22 May 2016 . Retrieved 17 June 2016 . ^ "A – 2 Decadal Variation in Population Since 1901" (PDF) . 2011 Census Data . Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India . Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 April 2016 . Retrieved 17 June 2016 . ^ a b c d "India Datasets" . International Monetary Fund . Retrieved 6 January 2025 . ^ a b c "World Economic Outlook Database, October 2024 Edition. (India)" . imf.org . International Monetary Fund . 22 October 2024 . Retrieved 22 October 2024 . ^ "Gini index (World Bank estimate) – India" . World Bank . ^ "Human Development Report 2023/24" (PDF) . United Nations Development Programme . 13 March 2024 . Retrieved 13 March 2024 . ^ "List of all left- & right-driving countries around the world" . worldstandards.eu . 13 May 2020 . Retrieved 10 June 2020 . ^ The Essential Desk Reference , Oxford University Press , 2002, p. 76, ISBN 978-0-19-512873-4 "Official name: Republic of India."; John Da Graça (2017), Heads of State and Government , London: Macmillan , p. 421, ISBN 978-1-349-65771-1 "Official name: Republic of India; Bharat Ganarajya (Hindi)"; Graham Rhind (2017), Global Sourcebook of Address Data Management: A Guide to Address Formats and Data in 194 Countries , Taylor & Francis , p. 302, ISBN 978-1-351-93326-1 "Official name: Republic of India; Bharat."; Bradnock, Robert W. (2015), The Routledge Atlas of South Asian Affairs , Routledge , p. 108, ISBN 978-1-317-40511-5 "Official name: English: Republic of India; Hindi:Bharat Ganarajya"; Penguin Compact Atlas of the World , Penguin , 2012, p. 140, ISBN 978-0-7566-9859-1 "Official name: Republic of India"; Merriam-Webster's Geographical Dictionary (3rd ed.), Merriam-Webster , 1997, pp. 515– 516, ISBN 978-0-87779-546-9 "Officially, Republic of India"; Complete Atlas of the World: The Definitive View of the Earth (3rd ed.), DK Publishing , 2016, p. 54, ISBN 978-1-4654-5528-4 "Official name: Republic of India"; Worldwide Government Directory with Intergovernmental Organizations 2013 , CQ Press , 2013, p. 726, ISBN 978-1-4522-9937-2 ^ Biswas, Soutik (1 May 2023). "Most populous nation: Should India rejoice or panic?" . BBC . Retrieved 3 May 2023 . ^ World Population Prospects 2022: Summary of Results (PDF) . New York: United Nations Department of Social and Economic Affairs. 2022. p. i. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2012 , p. 327, "Even though much remains to be done, especially in regard to eradicating poverty and securing effective structures of governance, India's achievements since independence in sustaining freedom and democracy have been singular among the world's new nations.". ^ Stein, Burton (2012), Arnold, David (ed.), A History of India , The Blackwell History of the World Series (2nd ed.), Wiley-Blackwell, One of these is the idea of India as 'the world's largest democracy', but a democracy forged less by the creation of representative institutions and expanding electorate under British rule than by the endeavours of India's founding fathers – Gandhi, Nehru, Patel and Ambedkar – and the labours of the Constituent Assembly between 1946 and 1949, embodied in the Indian constitution of 1950. This democratic order, reinforced by the regular holding of nationwide elections and polling for the state assemblies, has, it can be argued, consistently underpinned a fundamentally democratic state structure – despite the anomaly of the Emergency and the apparent durability of the Gandhi-Nehru dynasty. ^ Fisher 2018 , pp. 184–185: "Since 1947, India's internal disputes over its national identity, while periodically bitter and occasionally punctuated by violence, have been largely managed with remarkable and sustained commitment to national unity and democracy." ^ "Ministry of Home Affairs (Department of Border Management)" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 March 2015 . Retrieved 1 September 2008 . ^ a b c Petraglia & Allchin 2007 , p. 10 , "Y-Chromosome and Mt-DNA data support the colonization of South Asia by modern humans originating in Africa. ... Coalescence dates for most non-European populations average to between 73 and 55 ka." ^ a b Dyson 2018 , p. 1 , "Modern human beings— Homo sapiens —originated in Africa. Then, intermittently, sometime between 60,000 and 80,000 years ago, tiny groups of them began to enter the north-west of the Indian subcontinent. It seems likely that initially they came by way of the coast. ... it is virtually certain that there were Homo sapiens in the subcontinent 55,000 years ago, even though the earliest fossils that have been found of them date to only about 30,000 years before the present." ^ a b Fisher 2018 , p. 23 , "Scholars estimate that the first successful expansion of the Homo sapiens range beyond Africa and across the Arabian Peninsula occurred from as early as 80,000 years ago to as late as 40,000 years ago, although there may have been prior unsuccessful emigrations. Some of their descendants extended the human range ever further in each generation, spreading into each habitable land they encountered. One human channel was along the warm and productive coastal lands of the Persian Gulf and northern Indian Ocean. Eventually, various bands entered India between 75,000 years ago and 35,000 years ago." ^ Dyson 2018 , p. 28 ^ (a) Dyson 2018 , pp. 4–5 ; (b) Fisher 2018 , p. 33 ^ Lowe 2015 , pp. 1–2, " It consists of 1,028 hymns ( sūktas ), highly crafted poetic compositions originally intended for recital during rituals and for the invocation of and communication with the Indo-Aryan gods. Modern scholarly opinion largely agrees that these hymns were composed between around 1500 BCE and 1200 BCE, during the eastward migration of the Indo-Aryan tribes from the mountains of what is today northern Afghanistan across the Punjab into north India." ^ (a) Witzel 2003 , pp. 68–70, "It is known from internal evidence that the Vedic texts were orally composed in northern India, at first in the Greater Punjab and later on also in more eastern areas, including northern Bihar, between ca. 1500 BCE and ca. 500–400 BCE. The oldest text, the Rgveda, must have been more or less contemporary with the Mitanni texts of northern Syria/Iraq (1450–1350 BCE); [...] The Vedic texts were orally composed and transmitted, without the use of script, in an unbroken line of transmission from teacher to student that was formalised early on. This ensured an impeccable textual transmission superior to the classical texts of other cultures; it is in fact something of a tape-recording of ca. 1500–500 BCE. Not just the actual words, but even the long-lost musical (tonal) accent (as in old Greek or in Japanese) has been preserved up to the present. [...] The RV text was composed before the introduction and massive use of iron, that is before ca. 1200–1000 BCE."; (b) Doniger 2014 , pp. xviii, 10, "A Chronology of Hinduism: ca. 1500–1000 BCE Rig Veda; ca. 1200–900 BCE Yajur Veda, Sama Veda and Atharva Veda [...] Hindu texts began with the Rig Veda ('Knowledge of Verses'), composed in northwest India around 1500 BCE; the first of the three Vedas, it is the earliest extant text composed in Sanskrit, the language of ancient India."; (c) Ludden 2014 , p. 19 , "In Punjab, a dry region with grasslands watered by five rivers (hence 'panch' and 'ab') draining the western Himalayas, one prehistoric culture left no material remains, but some of its ritual texts were preserved orally over the millennia. The culture is called Aryan, and evidence in its texts indicates that it spread slowly south-east, following the course of the Yamuna and Ganga Rivers. Its elite called itself Arya (pure) and distinguished themselves sharply from others. Aryans led kin groups organized as nomadic horse-herding tribes. Their ritual texts are called Vedas, composed in Sanskrit. Vedic Sanskrit is recorded only in hymns that were part of Vedic rituals to Aryan gods. To be Aryan apparently meant to belong to the elite among pastoral tribes. Texts that record Aryan culture are not precisely datable, but they seem to begin around 1200 BCE with four collections of Vedic hymns (Rg, Sama, Yajur, and Artharva)."; (d) Dyson 2018 , pp. 14–15 , "Although the collapse of the Indus valley civilization is no longer believed to have been due to an 'Aryan invasion' it is widely thought that, at roughly the same time, or perhaps a few centuries later, new Indo-Aryan-speaking people and influences began to enter the subcontinent from the north-west. Detailed evidence is lacking. Nevertheless, a predecessor of the language that would eventually be called Sanskrit was probably introduced into the north-west sometime between 3,900 and 3,000 years ago. This language was related to one then spoken in eastern Iran; and both of these languages belonged to the Indo-European language family. [...] It seems likely that various small-scale migrations were involved in the gradual introduction of the predecessor language and associated cultural characteristics. However, there may not have been a tight relationship between movements of people on the one hand, and changes in language and culture on the other. Moreover, the process whereby a dynamic new force gradually arose—a people with a distinct ideology who eventually seem to have referred to themselves as 'Arya'—was certainly two-way. That is, it involved a blending of new features which came from outside with other features—probably including some surviving Harappan influences—that were already present. Anyhow, it would be quite a few centuries before Sanskrit was written down. And the hymns and stories of the Arya people—especially the Vedas and the later Mahabharata and Ramayana epics—are poor guides as to historical events. Of course, the emerging Arya were to have a huge impact on the history of the subcontinent. Nevertheless, little is known about their early presence."; (e) Robb 2011 , pp. 46– , "The expansion of Aryan culture is supposed to have begun around 1500 BCE. It should not be thought that this Aryan emergence (though it implies some migration) necessarily meant either a sudden invasion of new peoples, or a complete break with earlier traditions. It comprises a set of cultural ideas and practices, upheld by a Sanskrit-speaking elite, or Aryans. The features of this society are recorded in the Vedas." ^ (a) Jamison, Stephanie ; Brereton, Joel (2020), The Rigveda , Oxford University Press , pp. 2, 4, ISBN 978-0-19-063339-4 , The RgVeda is one of the four Vedas, which together constitute the oldest texts in Sanskrit and the earliest evidence for what will become Hinduism. (p. 2)  Although Vedic religion is very different in many regards from what is known as Classical Hinduism, the seeds are there. Gods like Visnu and Siva (under the name Rudra), who will become so dominant later, are already present in the Rgveda, though in roles both lesser than and different from those they will later play, and the principal Rgvedic gods like Indra remain in later Hinduism, though in diminished capacity (p. 4). ; (b) Flood, Gavin (2020), "Introduction" , in Gavin Flood (ed.), The Oxford History of Hinduism: Hindu Practice: Hindu Practice , Oxford University Press , pp. 4–, ISBN 978-0-19-105322-1 , I take the term 'Hinduism to meaningfully denote a range and history of practice characterised by a number of features, particularly reference to Vedic textual and sacrificial origins, belonging to endogamous social units (jati/varna), participating in practices that involve making an offering to a deity and receiving a blessing (puja), and a first-level cultural polytheism (although many Hindus adhere to a second-level monotheism in which many gods are regarded as emanations or manifestations of the one, supreme being). ; (c) Michaels, Axel (2017). Patrick Olivelle, Donald R. Davis (ed.). The Oxford History of Hinduism: Hindu Law: A New History of Dharmaśāstra . Oxford: Oxford University Press . pp. 86– 97. ISBN 978-0-19-100709-5 . Almost all traditional Hindu families observe until today at least three samskaras (initiation, marriage, and death ritual).  Most other rituals have lost their popularity, are combined with other rites of passage, or are drastically shortened.  Although samskaras vary from region to region, from class ( varna ) to class, and from caste to caste, their core elements remain the same owing to the common source, the Veda, and a common priestly tradition preserved by the Brahmin priests. (p 86) (d) Flood, Gavin D. (1996). An Introduction to Hinduism . Cambridge University Press . p. 35. ISBN 978-0-521-43878-0 . It is this Sansrit, vedic, tradition which has maintained a continuity into modern times and which has provided the most important resource and inspiration for Hindu traditions and individuals.  The Veda is the foundation for most later developments in what is known as Hinduism. ^ Dyson 2018 , pp. 16 , 25 ^ Dyson 2018 , p. 16 ^ Fisher 2018 , p. 59 ^ (a) Dyson 2018 , pp. 16–17 ; (b) Fisher 2018 , p. 67 ; (c) Robb 2011 , pp. 56–57 ; (d) Ludden 2014 , pp. 29–30 . ^ (a) Ludden 2014 , pp. 28–29 ; (b) Glenn Van Brummelen (2014), "Arithmetic" , in Thomas F. Glick; Steven Livesey; Faith Wallis (eds.), Medieval Science, Technology, and Medicine: An Encyclopedia , Routledge , pp. 46– 48, ISBN 978-1-135-45932-1 ^ (a) Dyson 2018 , p. 20 ; (b) Stein 2010 , p. 90; (c) Ramusack, Barbara N. (1999), "Women in South Asia" , in Barbara N. Ramusack; Sharon L. Sievers (eds.), Women in Asia: Restoring Women to History , Indiana University Press , pp. 27– 29, ISBN 0-253-21267-7 ^ a b Kulke & Rothermund 2004 , p. 93. ^ Asher & Talbot 2006 , p. 17 ^ (a) Ludden 2014 , p. 54 ; (b) Asher & Talbot 2006 , pp. 78–79 ; (c) Fisher 2018 , p. 76 ^ (a) Ludden 2014 , pp. 68–70 ; (b) Asher & Talbot 2006 , pp. 19 , 24 ^ (a) Dyson 2018 , p. 48 ; (b) Asher & Talbot 2006 , p. 52 ^ Asher & Talbot 2006 , p. 74 ^ Asher & Talbot 2006 , p. 267 ^ Asher & Talbot 2006 , p. 152 ^ a b Fisher 2018 , p. 106 ^ (a) Asher & Talbot 2006 , p. 289 (b) Fisher 2018 , p. 120 ^ Taylor, Miles (2016), "The British royal family and the colonial empire from the Georgians to Prince George" , in Aldrish, Robert; McCreery, Cindy (eds.), Crowns and Colonies: European Monarchies and Overseas Empires , Manchester University Press , pp. 38– 39, ISBN 978-1-5261-0088-7 ^ Peers 2013 , p. 76 . ^ Embree, Ainslie Thomas; Hay, Stephen N.; Bary, William Theodore De (1988), "Nationalism Takes Root: The Moderates" , Sources of Indian Tradition: Modern India and Pakistan , Columbia University Press , p. 85, ISBN 978-0-231-06414-9 ^ Marshall, P. J. (2001), The Cambridge Illustrated History of the British Empire , Cambridge University Press, p. 179, ISBN 978-0-521-00254-7 , The first modern nationalist movement to arise in the non-European empire, and one that became an inspiration for many others, was the Indian Congress. ^ Chiriyankandath, James (2016), Parties and Political Change in South Asia , Routledge, p. 2, ISBN 978-1-317-58620-3 , South Asian parties include several of the oldest in the post-colonial world, foremost among them the 129-year-old Indian National Congress that led India to independence in 1947 ^ Fisher 2018 , pp. 173–174: "The partition of South Asia that produced India and West and East Pakistan resulted from years of bitter negotiations and recriminations ... The departing British also decreed that the hundreds of princes, who ruled one-third of the subcontinent and a quarter of its population, became legally independent, their status to be settled later. Geographical location, personal and popular sentiment, and substantial pressure and incentives from the new governments led almost all princes eventually to merge their domains into either Pakistan or India.  ...  Each new government asserted its exclusive sovereignty within its borders, realigning all territories, animals, plants, minerals, and all other natural and human-made resources as either Pakistani or Indian property, to be used for its national development... Simultaneously, the central civil and military services and judiciary split roughly along religious 'communal' lines, even as they divided movable government assets according to a negotiated formula: 22.7 percent for Pakistan and 77.3 percent for India." ^ Chatterji, Joya; Washbrook, David (2013), "Introduction: Concepts and Questions", in Chatterji, Joya; Washbrook, David (eds.), Routledge Handbook of the South Asian Diaspora , London and New York: Routledge, ISBN 978-0-415-48010-9 , Joya Chatterji describes how the partition of the British Indian empire into the new nation states of India and Pakistan produced new diaspora on a vast, and hitherto unprecedented, scale, but hints that the sheer magnitude of refugee movements in South Asia after 1947 must be understood in the context of pre-existing migratory flows within the partitioned regions (see also Chatterji 2013). She also demonstrates that the new national states of India and Pakistan were quickly drawn into trying to stem this migration. As they put into place laws designed to restrict the return of partition emigrants, this produced new dilemmas for both new nations in their treatment of 'overseas Indians'; and many of them lost their right to return to their places of origin in the subcontinent, and also their claims to full citizenship in host countries. ^ Talbot, Ian; Singh, Gurharpal (2009), The Partition of India , Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-85661-4 , archived from the original on 13 December 2016 , retrieved 15 November 2015 , When the British divided and quit India in August 1947, they not only partitioned the subcontinent with the emergence of the two nations of India and Pakistan but also the provinces of Punjab and Bengal. ... Indeed for many the Indian subcontinent's division in August 1947 is seen as a unique event which defies comparative historical and conceptual analysis ^ Khan, Yasmin (2017) [2007], The Great Partition: The Making of India and Pakistan (2nd ed.), New Haven and London: Yale University Press, p. 1, ISBN 978-0-300-23032-1 , South Asians learned that the British Indian empire would be partitioned on 3 June 1947.  They heard about it on the radio, from relations and friends, by reading newspapers and, later, through government pamphlets.  Among a population of almost four hundred million, where the vast majority live in the countryside, ploughing the land as landless peasants or sharecroppers, it is hardly surprising that many thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, did not hear the news for many weeks afterwards. For some, the butchery and forced relocation of the summer months of 1947 may have been the first that they knew about the creation of the two new states rising from the fragmentary and terminally weakened British empire in India ^ (a) Copland 2001 , pp. 71–78; (b) Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 222. ^ Dyson 2018 , pp. 219 , 262 ^ Fisher 2018 , p. 8 ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2012 , pp. 265–266 ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2012 , p. 266 ^ Dyson 2018 , p. 216 ^ (a) "Kashmir, region Indian subcontinent" , Encyclopaedia Britannica , archived from the original on 13 August 2019 , retrieved 15 August 2019 , Kashmir, region of the northwestern Indian subcontinent ... has been the subject of dispute between India and Pakistan since the partition of the Indian subcontinent in 1947. ; (b) Pletcher, Kenneth, "Aksai Chin, Plateau Region, Asia" , Encyclopaedia Britannica , archived from the original on 2 April 2019 , retrieved 16 August 2019 , Aksai Chin, Chinese (Pinyin) Aksayqin, portion of the Kashmir region, ... constitutes nearly all the territory of the Chinese-administered sector of Kashmir that is claimed by India ; (c) Bosworth, C. E (2006). "Kashmir" . Encyclopedia Americana : Jefferson to Latin . Scholastic Library Publishing . p. 328. ISBN 978-0-7172-0139-6 . KASHMIR, kash'mer, the northernmost region of the Indian subcontinent, administered partly by India, partly by Pakistan, and partly by China. The region has been the subject of a bitter dispute between India and Pakistan since they became independent in 1947 ^ Narayan, Jitendra; John, Denny; Ramadas, Nirupama (2018). "Malnutrition in India: status and government initiatives". Journal of Public Health Policy . 40 (1): 126– 141. doi : 10.1057/s41271-018-0149-5 . ISSN 0197-5897 . PMID 30353132 . S2CID 53032234 . ^ Balakrishnan, Kalpana ; Dey, Sagnik; et al. (2019). "The impact of air pollution on deaths, disease burden, and life expectancy across the states of India: the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017" . The Lancet Planetary Health . 3 (1): e26 – e39 . doi : 10.1016/S2542-5196(18)30261-4 . ISSN 2542-5196 . PMC 6358127 . PMID 30528905 . ^ a b India , International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), 2019, archived from the original on 1 November 2020 , retrieved 21 May 2019 ^ Karanth & Gopal 2005 , p. 374. ^ "India (noun)" , Oxford English Dictionary (3rd ed.), 2009 (subscription required) ^ Thieme 1970 , pp. 447–450. ^ a b Kuiper 2010 , p. 86. ^ a b c Clémentin-Ojha 2014 . ^ The Constitution of India (PDF) , Ministry of Law and Justice , 1 December 2007, archived from the original (PDF) on 9 September 2014 , retrieved 3 March 2012 , Article 1(1): India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States. ^ Jha, Dwijendra Narayan (2014), Rethinking Hindu Identity , Routledge , p. 11, ISBN 978-1-317-49034-0 ^ Singh 2017 , p. 253 . ^ a b Barrow 2003 . ^ Paturi, Joseph; Patterson, Roger (2016). "Hinduism (with Hare Krishna)". In Hodge, Bodie; Patterson, Roger (eds.). World Religions & Cults Volume 2: Moralistic, Mythical and Mysticism Religions . United States: New Leaf Publishing Group. pp. 59– 60. ISBN 978-0-89051-922-6 . The actual term Hindu first occurs as a Persian geographical term for the people who lived beyond the Indus River. The term Hindu originated as a geographical term and did not refer to a religion. Later, Hindu was taken by European languages from the Arabic term al-Hind, which referred to the people who lived across the Indus River. This Arabic term was itself taken from the Persian term Hindū, which refers to all Indians. By the 13th century, Hindustan emerged as a popular alternative name for India, meaning the "land of Hindus." ^ "Hindustan" , Encyclopædia Britannica , retrieved 17 July 2011 ^ Lowe, John J. (2017). Transitive Nouns and Adjectives: Evidence from Early Indo-Aryan . Oxford University Press . p. 58. ISBN 978-0-19-879357-1 . The term 'Epic Sanskrit' refers to the language of the two great Sanskrit epics, the Mahābhārata and the Rāmāyaṇa. ...  It is likely, therefore, that the epic-like elements found in Vedic sources and the two epics that we have are not directly related, but that both drew on the same source, an oral tradition of storytelling that existed before, throughout, and after the Vedic period. ^ a b Coningham & Young 2015 , pp. 104–105. ^ Kulke & Rothermund 2004 , pp. 21–23. ^ a b Singh 2009 , p. 181. ^ Possehl 2003 , p. 2. ^ a b c Singh 2009 , p. 255. ^ a b Singh 2009 , pp. 186–187. ^ Witzel 2003 , pp. 68–69. ^ Kulke & Rothermund 2004 , pp. 41–43. ^ a b Singh 2009 , pp. 250–251. ^ Singh 2009 , pp. 260–265. ^ Kulke & Rothermund 2004 , pp. 53–54. ^ Singh 2009 , pp. 312–313. ^ Kulke & Rothermund 2004 , pp. 54–56. ^ Stein 1998 , p. 21. ^ Stein 1998 , pp. 67–68. ^ Singh 2009 , p. 300. ^ a b Singh 2009 , p. 319. ^ Stein 1998 , pp. 78–79. ^ Kulke & Rothermund 2004 , p. 70. ^ Singh 2009 , p. 367. ^ Kulke & Rothermund 2004 , p. 63. ^ Stein 1998 , pp. 89–90. ^ Singh 2009 , pp. 408–415. ^ Stein 1998 , pp. 92–95. ^ Kulke & Rothermund 2004 , pp. 89–91. ^ a b c Singh 2009 , p. 545. ^ Stein 1998 , pp. 98–99. ^ a b Stein 1998 , p. 132. ^ a b c Stein 1998 , pp. 119–120. ^ a b Stein 1998 , pp. 121–122. ^ a b Stein 1998 , p. 123. ^ a b Stein 1998 , p. 124. ^ a b Stein 1998 , pp. 127–128. ^ Ludden 2002 , p. 68. ^ Asher & Talbot 2008 , p. 47. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 6. ^ Ludden 2002 , p. 67. ^ Asher & Talbot 2008 , pp. 50–51. ^ a b Asher & Talbot 2008 , p. 53. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 12. ^ Robb 2001 , p. 80. ^ Stein 1998 , p. 164. ^ Asher & Talbot 2008 , p. 115. ^ Robb 2001 , pp. 90–91. ^ a b Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 17. ^ a b c Asher & Talbot 2008 , p. 152. ^ Asher & Talbot 2008 , p. 158. ^ Stein 1998 , p. 169. ^ Asher & Talbot 2008 , p. 186. ^ a b Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 23–24. ^ Asher & Talbot 2008 , p. 256. ^ a b c Asher & Talbot 2008 , p. 286. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 44–49. ^ Robb 2001 , pp. 98–100. ^ Ludden 2002 , pp. 128–132. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 51–55. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 68–71. ^ Asher & Talbot 2008 , p. 289. ^ Robb 2001 , pp. 151–152. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 94–99. ^ Brown 1994 , p. 83. ^ Peers 2006 , p. 50. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 100–103. ^ Brown 1994 , pp. 85–86. ^ Stein 1998 , p. 239. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 103–108. ^ Robb 2001 , p. 183. ^ Sarkar 1983 , pp. 1–4. ^ Copland 2001 , pp. ix–x. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 123. ^ Stein 1998 , p. 260. ^ Stein 2010 , p. 245: An expansion of state functions in British and in princely India occurred as a result of the terrible famines of the later nineteenth century, ... A reluctant regime decided that state resources had to be deployed and that anti-famine measures were best managed through technical experts. ^ Stein 1998 , p. 258. ^ a b Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 126. ^ a b Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 97. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 163. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 167. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 195–197. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 203. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 231. ^ "Role of Soviet Union in India's industrialisation: a comparative assessment with the West" (PDF) . ijrar.com . ^ "Briefing Rooms: India" , Economic Research Service , United States Department of Agriculture , 2009, archived from the original on 20 May 2011 ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 265–266. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 266–270. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 253. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 274. ^ a b Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , pp. 247–248. ^ Metcalf & Metcalf 2006 , p. 304. ^ a b c d Ali & Aitchison 2005 . ^ Dikshit & Schwartzberg 2023 , p. 7. ^ Prakash et al. 2000 . ^ Kaul 1970 , p. 160, " The Aravalli range boldy defines the eastern limit of the arid and semi-arid zone. Probably the more humid conditions that prevail near the Aravallis prevented the extension of aridity towards the east and the Ganges Valley. It is noteworthy that, wherever there are gaps in this range, sand has advanced to the east of it." ^ Prasad 1974 , p. 372, " The topography of the Indian Desert is dominated by the Aravalli Ranges on its eastern border, which consist largely of tightly folded and highly metamorphosed Archaean rocks." ^ Fisher 2018 , p. 83, " East of the lower Indus lay the inhospitable Rann of Kutch and Thar Desert. East of the upper Indus lay the more promising but narrow corridor between the Himalayan foothills on the north and the Thar Desert and Aravalli Mountains on the south. At the strategic choke point, just before reaching the fertile, well-watered Gangetic plain, sat Delhi. On this site, where life giving streams running off the most northern spur of the rocky Aravalli ridge flowed into the Jumna river, and where the war-horse and war-elephant trade intersected, a series of dynasties built fortified capitals." ^ Mcgrail et al. 2003 , p. 257. ^ Dikshit & Schwartzberg 2023 , p. 8. ^ Dikshit & Schwartzberg 2023 , pp. 9–10. ^ Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 2007 , p. 1. ^ a b Kumar et al. 2006 . ^ Dikshit & Schwartzberg 2023 , p. 15. ^ Duff 1993 , p. 353. ^ Basu & Xavier 2017 , p. 78 . ^ Dikshit & Schwartzberg 2023 , p. 16. ^ Dikshit & Schwartzberg 2023 , p. 17. ^ Dikshit & Schwartzberg 2023 , p. 12. ^ Dikshit & Schwartzberg 2023 , p. 13. ^ a b Chang 1967 , pp. 391–394. ^ Posey 1994 , p. 118. ^ Wolpert 2003 , p. 4. ^ Heitzman & Worden 1996 , p. 97. ^ Sharma, Vibha (15 June 2020). "Average temperature over India projected to rise by 4.4 degrees Celsius: Govt report on impact of climate change in country" . The Tribune . Retrieved 30 November 2020 . ^ Sethi, Nitin (3 February 2007). "Global warming: Mumbai to face the heat" . The Times of India . Retrieved 11 March 2021 . ^ Gupta, Vivek; Jain, Manoj Kumar (2018). "Investigation of multi-model spatiotemporal mesoscale drought projections over India under climate change scenario" . Journal of Hydrology . 567 : 489– 509. Bibcode : 2018JHyd..567..489G . doi : 10.1016/j.jhydrol.2018.10.012 . ISSN 0022-1694 . S2CID 135053362 . ^ Megadiverse Countries , Biodiversity A–Z, UN Environment World Conservation Monitoring Centre , retrieved 17 October 2021 ^ "Animal Discoveries 2011: New Species and New Records" (PDF) . Zoological Survey of India . 2012. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 January 2013 . Retrieved 20 July 2012 . ^ a b Puri, S. K., "Biodiversity Profile of India" , ces.iisc.ernet.in , archived from the original on 21 November 2011 , retrieved 20 June 2007 ^ Basak 1983 , p. 24. ^ a b Venkataraman, Krishnamoorthy; Sivaperuman, Chandrakasan (2018), "Biodiversity Hotspots in India" , in Sivaperuman, Chandrakasan; Venkataraman, Krishnamoorthy (eds.), Indian Hotspots: Vertebrate Faunal Diversity, Conservation and Management , Springer , p. 5, ISBN 978-981-10-6605-4 ^ a b Jha, Raghbendra (2018), Facets of India's Economy and Her Society Volume II: Current State and Future Prospects , Springer , p. 198, ISBN 978-1-349-95342-4 ^ a b "Forest Cover in States/UTs in India in 2019" . Forest Research Institute via National Informatics Centre . Retrieved 16 October 2021 . ^ Tritsch 2001 , pp. 11–12. ^ Tritsch 2001 , p. 12India has two natural zones of thorn forest, one in the rain shadow area of the Deccan Plateau east of the Western Ghats, and the other in the western part of the Indo-Gangetic plain. Growth is limited only by moisture availability in these areas, so with irrigation the fertile alluvial soil of Punjab and Haryana has been turned into India's prime agricultural area. Much of the thorn forest covering the plains probably had savannah-like features now no longer visible. ^ Goyal, Anupam (2006), The WTO and International Environmental Law: Towards Conciliation , Oxford University Press , p. 295, ISBN 978-0-19-567710-2 Quote: "The Indian government successfully argued that the medicinal neem tree is part of traditional Indian knowledge. (page 295)" ^ Hughes, Julie E. (2013), Animal Kingdoms , Harvard University Press , p. 106, ISBN 978-0-674-07480-4 , At same time, the leafy pipal trees and comparative abundance that marked the Mewari landscape fostered refinements unattainable in other lands. ^ Ameri, Marta (2018), "Letting the Pictures Speak: An Image-Based Approach to the Mythological and Narrative Imagery of the Harappan World", in Ameri, Marta; Costello, Sarah Kielt; Jamison, Gregg; Scott, Sarah Jarmer (eds.), Seals and Sealing in the Ancient World: Case Studies from the Near East, Egypt, the Aegean, and South Asia , Cambridge University Press , pp. 156– 157, ISBN 978-1-108-17351-3 Quote: "The last of the centaurs has the long, wavy, horizontal horns of a markhor, a human face, a heavy-set body that appears bovine, and a goat tail ... This figure is often depicted by itself, but it is also consistently represented in scenes that seem to reflect the adoration of a figure in a pipal tree or arbour and which may be termed ritual. These include fully detailed scenes like that visible in the large 'divine adoration' seal from Mohenjo-daro." ^ Paul Gwynne (2011), World Religions in Practice: A Comparative Introduction , John Wiley & Sons , p. 358, ISBN 978-1-4443-6005-9 , The tree under which Sakyamuni became the Buddha is a peepal tree ( Ficus religiosa ). ^ Crame & Owen 2002 , p. 142. ^ Karanth 2006 . ^ Tritsch 2001 , p. 14. ^ Singh, M.; Kumar, A. & Molur, S. (2008). "Trachypithecus johnii" . The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species . 2008 . e.T44694A10927987. doi : 10.2305/IUCN.UK.2008.RLTS.T44694A10927987.en . ^ Fischer, Johann . "Semnopithecus johnii" . ITIS . Archived from the original on 29 August 2018 . Retrieved 27 August 2018 . ^ a b S.D. Biju; Sushil Dutta; M.S. Ravichandran Karthikeyan Vasudevan; S.P. Vijayakumar; Chelmala Srinivasulu; Gajanan Dasaramji Bhuddhe (2004). "Duttaphrynus beddomii" . The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species . 2004 . IUCN : e.T54584A86543952. doi : 10.2305/IUCN.UK.2004.RLTS.T54584A11155448.en . ^ Frost, Darrel R. (2015). " Duttaphrynus beddomii (Günther, 1876)" . Amphibian Species of the World: an Online Reference. Version 6.0 . American Museum of Natural History . Archived from the original on 21 July 2015 . Retrieved 13 September 2015 . ^ Mace 1994 , p. 4. ^ Lovette, Irby J.; Fitzpatrick, John W. (2016), Handbook of Bird Biology , John Wiley & Sons , p. 599, ISBN 978-1-118-29105-4 ^ Tritsch 2001 , p. 15Before it was so heavily settled and intensively exploited, the Punjab was dominated by thorn forest interspersed by rolling grasslands which were grazed on by millions of Blackbuck, accompanied by their dominant predator, the Cheetah. Always keen hunters, the Moghul princes kept tame cheetahs which were used to chase and bring down the Blackbuck. Today the Cheetah is extinct in India and the severely endangered Blackbuck no longer exists in the Punjab. ^ Ministry of Environment and Forests 1972 . ^ Department of Environment and Forests 1988 . ^ "Biosphere" (PDF) . Retrieved 28 June 2023 . ^ "75 Ramsar Sites in 75th Year of Independence" . pib.gov.in . Retrieved 28 June 2023 . ^ Reviving the Roar: India's Tiger Population Is On the Rise , 13 April 2023 , retrieved 15 April 2023 ^ Johnston, Hank (2019), Social Movements, Nonviolent Resistance, and the State , Routledge , p. 83, ISBN 978-0-429-88566-2 ^ Burnell & Calvert 1999 , p. 125. ^ Election Commission of India . ^ Sáez, Lawrence; Sinha, Aseema (2010). "Political cycles, political institutions and public expenditure in India, 1980–2000". British Journal of Political Science . 40 (1): 91– 113. doi : 10.1017/s0007123409990226 . ISSN 0007-1234 . S2CID 154767259 . ^ Malik & Singh 1992 , pp. 318–336. ^ Banerjee 2005 , p. 3118. ^ Halarnkar, Samar (13 June 2012). "Narendra Modi makes his move" . BBC News . The right-wing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), India's primary opposition party ^ Sarkar 2007 , p. 84. ^ Chander 2004 , p. 117. ^ Bhambhri 1992 , pp. 118, 143. ^ "Narasimha Rao Passes Away" . The Hindu . 24 December 2004. Archived from the original on 13 February 2009 . Retrieved 2 November 2008 . ^ Dunleavy, Diwakar & Dunleavy 2007 . ^ Kulke & Rothermund 2004 , p. 384. ^ Business Standard 2009 . ^ "BJP first party since 1984 to win parliamentary majority on its own" . DNA . Indo-Asian News Service. 16 May 2014. Archived from the original on 21 May 2014 . Retrieved 20 May 2014 . ^ Mashal, Mujib (4 June 2024). "Modi Wins 3rd Term in India Election With Closer Results Than Expected" . The New York Times . ^ Bremner, G. A. (2016), Architecture and Urbanism in the British Empire , Oxford University Press , p. 117, ISBN 978-0-19-102232-6 ^ Pylee 2003a , p. 4. ^ Dutt 1998 , p. 421. ^ Wheare 1980 , p. 28. ^ Echeverri-Gent 2002 , pp. 19–20. ^ Sinha 2004 , p. 25. ^ "The Constitution of India" (PDF) . legislature.gov.in . Archived (PDF) from the original on 16 April 2019 . Retrieved 16 July 2016 . ^ a b Sharma 2007 , p. 31. ^ Sharma 2007 , p. 138. ^ Gledhill 1970 , p. 112. ^ a b Sharma 1950 . ^ a b Sharma 2007 , p. 162. ^ Mathew 2003 , p. 524. ^ Gledhill 1970 , p. 127. ^ Sharma 2007 , p. 161. ^ a b c Madhavan 2024 , pp. 17–18. ^ Sharma 2007 , p. 143. ^ Ghosh, Abantika; Kaushal, Pradeep (2 January 2020). "Explained: Anglo-Indian quota, its history, MPs" . The Indian Express . Retrieved 17 October 2021 . ^ a b Neuborne 2003 , p. 478. ^ Sharma 2007 , pp. 238, 255. ^ Sripati 1998 , pp. 423–424. ^ Pylee 2003b , p. 314. ^ Sharma 2007 , p. 49. ^ "India" . Commonwealth Local Government Forum . Archived from the original on 15 July 2019 . Retrieved 7 September 2019 . ^ Dinkel, Jürgen (2018). The Non-Aligned Movement: Genesis, Organization and Politics (1927–1992) . Brill . pp. 92– 93. ISBN 978-90-04-33613-1 . ^ Rothermund 2000 , pp. 48, 227. ^ (a) Guyot-Rechard, Berenice (2017), Shadow States: India, China and the Himalayas, 1910–1962 , Cambridge University Press, p. 235, ISBN 978-1-107-17679-9 , By invading NEFA, the PRC did not just aim to force a humiliated India to recognise its possession of the Aksai Chin.  It also hoped to get, once and for all, the upper hand in their shadowing competition. (b) Chubb, Andrew (2021), "The Sino-Indian Border Crisis: Chinese Perceptions of Indian Nationalism" , in Golley, Jane; Jaivan, Linda; Strange, Sharon (eds.), Crisis , Australian National University Press, pp. 231– 232, ISBN 978-1-76046-439-4 , The ensuing cycle of escalation culminated in the 1962 Sino-Indian border war in which Mao Zedong's troops overran almost the entire state of Arunachal Pradesh in the eastern sector before unilaterally withdrawing, as if to underline the insult; most of the war's several thousand casualties were Indian. The PLA's decisive victories in the 1962 war not only humiliated the Indian Army, they also entrenched a status quo in Ladakh that was highly unfavourable for India, in which China controls almost all of the disputed territory. A nationalistic press and commentariat have kept 1962 vivid in India's popular consciousness. (c) Lintner, Bertil (2018), China's India War: Collision Course on the Roof of the World , Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-909163-8 , Lin Biao was put in charge of the operation and that alliance between Mao and his loyal de facto chief of the PLA made the attack on India possible. With China's ultimate victory in the war, Mao's ultra-leftist line had won in China; whatever critical voices that were left in the Party after all the purges fell silent. (d) Medcalf, Rory (2020), Indo-Pacific Empire: China, America and the contest for the world's pivotal , Manchester University Press, ISBN 978-1-5261-5077-6 , From an Indian perspective, the China-India war of 1962 was a shocking betrayal of the principles of co-operation and coexistence: a surprise attack that humiliated India and personally broke Nehru. (e) Ganguly, Sumit (1997), The Crisis in Kashmir: Portents of War, Hope of Peace , Woodrow Wilson Center Press and Cambridge University Press, p. 44, ISBN 978-0-521-65566-8 , In October 1962 India suffered the most humiliating military debacle in its post-independence history, at the hands of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA). The outcome of this conflict had far-reaching consequences for Indian foreign and defence policies. The harsh defeat that the Chinese PLA had inflicted on the Indian Army called into question some of the most deeply held precepts of Nehru's foreign and defence policies. (f) Raghavan, Srinath (2019), "A Missed Opportunity? The Nehru-Zhou Enlai Summit of 1960" , in Bhagavan, Manu (ed.), India and the Cold War , University of North Carolina Press, p. 121, ISBN 978-1-4696-5117-0 , The 'forward policy' adopted by India to prevent the Chinese from occupying territory claimed by them was undertaken in the mistaken belief that Beijing would be cautious in dealing with India owing to Moscow's stance on the dispute and its growing proximity to India. These misjudgments would eventually culminate in India's humiliating defeat in the war of October–November 1962. ^ Brahma Chellaney (2006). Asian Juggernaut: The Rise of China, India, and Japan . HarperCollins . p. 195. ISBN 978-8172236502 . Indeed, Beijing's acknowledgement of Indian control over Sikkim seems limited to the purpose of facilitating trade through the vertiginous Nathu-la Pass, the scene of bloody artillery duels in September 1967 when Indian troops beat back attacking Chinese forces. ^ Gilbert 2002 , pp. 486–487. ^ Sharma 1999 , p. 56. ^ Gvosdev, N.K.; Marsh, C. (2013). Russian Foreign Policy: Interests, Vectors, and Sectors . SAGE Publications. p. 353. ISBN 978-1-4833-1130-2 . Putin's visit to India in December 2012 for the yearly India–Russia summit saw both sides reaffirming their special relationship. ^ Alford 2008 . ^ Jorge Heine; R. Viswanathan (Spring 2011). "The Other BRIC in Latin America: India" . Americas Quarterly . Archived from the original on 25 May 2017 . Retrieved 19 May 2017 . ^ Ghosh 2009 , pp. 282–289. ^ Sisodia & Naidu 2005 , pp. 1–8. ^ Muir, Hugh (13 July 2009), "Diary" , The Guardian , archived from the original on 19 October 2014 , retrieved 17 October 2021 , Members of the Indian armed forces have the plum job of leading off the great morning parade for Bastille Day. Only after units and bands from India's navy and air force have followed the Maratha Light Infantry will the parade be entirely given over to ... France's armed services. ^ Perkovich 2001 , pp. 60–86, 106–125. ^ Kumar 2010 . ^ Nair 2007 . ^ Pandit 2009 . ^ Pandit 2015 . ^ Iyer-Mitra, Abhijit; Das, Pushan. "The Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft:A Technical Analysis" (PDF) . Observer Research Foundation . Retrieved 17 October 2021 . ^ "India, Russia Review Defence Ties" . The Hindu . 5 October 2011. Archived from the original on 7 October 2011 . Retrieved 8 October 2011 . ^ a b Kristensen, Hans M.; Korda, Matt; Johns, Eliana; Knight, Mackenzie (5 September 2024). "Indian nuclear weapons, 2024" . Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists . Retrieved 8 February 2025 . ^ "Nuclear Weapons: Who Has What at a Glance" . Arms Control Association . January 2025 . Retrieved 8 February 2025 . ^ European Union 2008 . ^ The Times of India 2008 . ^ British Broadcasting Corporation 2009 . ^ Rediff 2008 a . ^ Reuters 2010 . ^ Curry 2010 . ^ a b c d Central Intelligence Agency . ^ Behera 2011 . ^ "Ministry wise Summary of Budget Provisions, 2022–23" (PDF) . Ministry of Finance, Government of India . Retrieved 3 February 2022 . ^ Pandit 2022 . ^ Pandit 2021 . ^ Miglani 2011 . ^ "Isro-Saarc satellite to be a communication vehicle" . Deccan Herald . DH News Service. 12 January 2015. Archived from the original on 28 June 2015 . Retrieved 22 April 2015 . ^ "India Russia S-400 missile deal: All you need to know" . The Times of India . 4 October 2018. Archived from the original on 5 October 2018 . Retrieved 9 October 2018 . ^ "Employment in agriculture (% of total employment) (modeled ILO estimate)" , The World Bank , 2019, archived from the original on 22 August 2019 , retrieved 26 March 2022 ^ "Employment in agriculture, female (% of female employment) (modeled ILO estimate)" , The World Bank , 2019, archived from the original on 22 August 2019 , retrieved 26 March 2022 ^ Kapoor, Rana (27 October 2015), "Growth in organised dairy sector, a boost for rural livelihood" , Business Line , archived from the original on 20 July 2019 , retrieved 26 August 2019 , Nearly 80 per cent of India's milk production is contributed by small and marginal farmers, with an average herd size of one to two milching animals. ^ International Monetary Fund 2011 , p. 2. ^ Nayak, Goldar & Agrawal 2010 , p. xxv. ^ International Monetary Fund . ^ Kochhar, Rakesh (18 March 2021). "In the pandemic, India's middle class shrinks and poverty spreads while China sees smaller changes" . Pew Research Center . Retrieved 22 October 2024 . ^ Wolpert 2003 , p. xiv. ^ a b c Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 2007 . ^ Gargan 1992 . ^ Alamgir 2008 , pp. 23, 97. ^ World Trade Organization 1995 . ^ "Remittances to India set to hit record $100bn this year, 25% higher than FDI flows" . The times of India . 1 December 2022 . Retrieved 5 December 2022 . ^ "India received $87 billion in remittances in 2021: World Bank" . Business Standard . 19 November 2021 . Retrieved 3 February 2022 . ^ "Exporters Get Wider Market Reach" , The Times of India , 28 August 2009, archived from the original on 12 September 2014 , retrieved 23 July 2011 ^ "Trade Map: Trade statistics for international business development" . International Trade Centre . 1999–2019 . Retrieved 30 September 2022 . ^ Economist 2011 . ^ Economic Times 2014 . ^ Bonner 2010 . ^ Farrell & Beinhocker 2007 . ^ "The Global Competitiveness Report 2019" (PDF) . Retrieved 18 February 2022 . ^ Schwab 2010 . ^ Sheth 2009 . ^ "Global Innovation Index 2024 : Unlocking the Promise of Social Entrepreneurship" . wipo.int . Retrieved 29 November 2024 . ^ "Households and NPISHs Final consumption expenditure (current US$)" . World Bank Open Data . ^ Scott, Allen J.; Garofoli, Gioacchino (2007), Development on the Ground: Clusters, Networks and Regions in Emerging Economies , Routledge , p. 208, ISBN 978-1-135-98422-9 ^ a b c Hawksworth & Tiwari 2011 . ^ India Country Overview , World Bank , September 2010, archived from the original on 22 May 2011 , retrieved 23 July 2011 ^ Economist 2017 . ^ "Indian Telecom Industry – Telecom Sector, FDI, Opportunities" . investindia.gov.in . Archived from the original on 18 May 2021. ^ Khan, Danish (28 October 2017), "Indian smartphone market grows 23% to overtake US in Q3; Samsung, Xiaomi drive shipments" , The Economic Times , archived from the original on 31 October 2017 , retrieved 5 November 2017 ^ Business Line 2010 . ^ Express India 2009 . ^ "India beats Japan to become world's third-largest vehicle market" . The Times of India . 10 January 2023. ISSN 0971-8257 . Retrieved 7 June 2023 . ^ Nasscom 2011–2012 . ^ "Indian Pharma: a strategic sector from 'Make in India' to 'Make and Develop in India' " . The Financial Express (India) . 16 September 2021 . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ "Indian Pharmaceutical Industry" . India Brand Equity Foundation . 12 October 2021 . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Sector in India: sector briefing by the UK Trade and Investment 2011, utki.gov.uk ^ Yep 2011 . ^ "Biotechnology in India – 2013 "biospectrum-able" Survey" . Differding.com. 24 June 2013. Archived from the original on 23 February 2014 . Retrieved 4 April 2014 . ^ "India's Total Power Generation Capacity Crosses 300 GW Mark" . NDTV . 1 August 2016. Archived from the original on 16 June 2017 . Retrieved 17 October 2021 . ^ Rowlatt, Justin (12 May 2020). "India's carbon emissions fall for first time in four decades" . BBC News . Retrieved 3 December 2020 . ^ USAID (September 2018). "Greenhouse Gas Emissions in India" (PDF) . Retrieved 10 June 2021 . ^ UN Environment Programme (2019). "Emissions Gap Report 2019" . UNEP – UN Environment Programme . Retrieved 10 June 2021 . ^ "India 2020 – Analysis" . International Energy Agency . 9 January 2020 . Retrieved 3 December 2020 . ^ Chan, Margaret (11 February 2014), Address at the 'India celebrates triumph over polio' event , New Delhi, India: World Health Organization , retrieved 17 October 2021 ^ Inclusive Growth and Service Delivery: Building on India's Success (PDF) , World Bank , 29 May 2006, archived from the original (PDF) on 14 May 2012 , retrieved 7 May 2009 ^ New Global Poverty Estimates – What It Means for India , World Bank , archived from the original on 6 May 2012 , retrieved 23 July 2011 ^ Kenny, Charles; Sandefur, Justin (7 October 2015). "Why the World Bank is changing the definition of the word "poor" " . Vox . Archived from the original on 14 January 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90 a day (2011 PPP) (% of population)" . World Bank . Archived from the original on 15 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "India's rank improves to 55th position on global hunger index" . The Economic Times . 13 October 2014. Archived from the original on 19 October 2014 . Retrieved 18 October 2014 . ^ Internet Desk (28 May 2015). "India is home to 194 million hungry people: UN" . The Hindu . Archived from the original on 2 December 2016 . Retrieved 17 October 2021 . ^ "India home to world's largest number of hungry people: report" . Dawn . 29 May 2015. Archived from the original on 29 May 2015 . Retrieved 17 October 2021 . ^ Drèze & Goyal 2008 , p. 46. ^ Pandit, Ambika (20 July 2018). "modern slavery in india: 8 million people live in 'modern slavery' in India, says report; govt junks claim – India News" . The Times of India . Retrieved 28 May 2022 . ^ "Child labour in India" (PDF) . International Labour Organization . Archived from the original (PDF) on 1 December 2017 . Retrieved 21 November 2017 . ^ Pal & Ghosh 2007 . ^ Ram, Vidya (27 January 2016). "India improves its ranking on corruption index" . Business Line . Archived from the original on 20 August 2018 . Retrieved 21 November 2017 . ^ "Corruption Perceptions Index 2018" (PDF) . transparency.org . Transparency International . Archived (PDF) from the original on 21 April 2019 . Retrieved 15 July 2019 . ^ a b Provisional Population Totals Paper 1 of 2011 India , p. 160. ^ a b Provisional Population Totals Paper 1 of 2011 India , p. 165. ^ "Population Of India (1951–2001)" (PDF) . Census of India . Ministry of Finance . Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 August 2011 . Retrieved 13 February 2013 . ^ Rorabacher 2010 , pp. 35–39. ^ "Physicians (per 1,000 people) – India" . World Bank . 2019 . Retrieved 27 March 2022 . ^ Garg 2005 . ^ Dyson & Visaria 2005 , pp. 115–129. ^ Ratna 2007 , pp. 271–272. ^ a b Chandramouli 2011 . ^ "Urban Agglomerations/Cities having population 1 lakh and above" (PDF) . Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner , India. Archived from the original (PDF) on 17 October 2013 . Retrieved 12 May 2014 . ^ a b Provisional Population Totals Paper 1 of 2011 India , p. 163. ^ Dharwadker 2010 , pp. 168–194, 186. ^ Ottenheimer 2008 , p. 303. ^ Mallikarjun 2004 . ^ "Global Muslim population estimated at 1.57 billion" . The Hindu . 8 October 2009. Archived from the original on 1 June 2013 . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ "India Chapter Summary 2012" (PDF) . United States Commission on International Religious Freedom . Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 April 2014 . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ Kuiper 2010 , p. 15. ^ a b Heehs 2002 , pp. 2–5. ^ Deutsch 1969 , pp. 3, 78. ^ Nakamura 1999 . ^ Rowland, 185–198, 252, 385–466 ^ Craven 1997 , pp. 14–16. ^ a b Harle 1994 , pp. 17–18. ^ Rowland 1970 , pp. 46–47. ^ Craven 1997 , pp. 35–46. ^ Rowland 1970 , pp. 67–70. ^ Harle 1994 , pp. 22–24. ^ Rowland 1970 , pp. 185–198, 252, 385–466. ^ Craven 1997 , pp. 22, 88. ^ Rowland 1970 , pp. 35, 99–100. ^ Craven 1997 , pp. 18–19. ^ Blurton 1993 , p. 151. ^ Harle 1994 , pp. 32–38. ^ Harle 1994 , pp. 43–55. ^ Rowland 1970 , pp. 113–119. ^ Blurton 1993 , pp. 10–11. ^ Craven 1997 , pp. 111–121. ^ Michell 2000 , pp. 44–70. ^ Harle 1994 , pp. 212–216. ^ Craven 1997 , pp. 152–160. ^ Blurton 1993 , pp. 225–227. ^ Harle 1994 , pp. 356–361. ^ Rowland 1970 , pp. 242–251. ^ Harle 1994 , pp. 361–370. ^ Craven 1997 , pp. 202–208. ^ Harle 1994 , pp. 372–382, 400–406. ^ Craven 1997 , pp. 222–243. ^ Harle 1994 , pp. 384–397, 407–420. ^ Craven 1997 , p. 243. ^ Michell 2000 , p. 210. ^ Michell 2000 , pp. 210–211. ^ Blurton 1993 , p. 211. ^ Kuiper 2010 , pp. 296–329. ^ Silverman 2007 , p. 20. ^ Kumar 2000 , p. 5. ^ Roberts 2004 , p. 73. ^ Lang & Moleski 2010 , pp. 151–152. ^ United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation . ^ Chopra 2011 , p. 46. ^ Hoiberg & Ramchandani 2000 . ^ Johnson 2008 . ^ MacDonell 2004 , pp. 1–40. ^ Kālidāsa & Johnson 2001 . ^ Zvelebil 1997 , p. 12. ^ Hart 1975 . ^ Ramanujan 1985 , pp. ix–x. ^ "Tamil Literature" , Encyclopædia Britannica , 2008 , retrieved 12 February 2022 ^ Das 2005 . ^ Datta 2006 . ^ Massey & Massey 1998 . ^ "South Asian Arts: Indian Dance" , Encyclopædia Britannica , retrieved 17 July 2011 ^ Lal 2004 , pp. 23, 30, 235. ^ Karanth 2002 , p. 26. ^ "In step with the times: Chaman Ahuja on how the National School of Drama has evolved over the past 50 years" . The Tribune . 15 March 2009. Archived from the original on 10 October 2017 . Retrieved 4 October 2017 . ^ Dissanayake & Gokulsing 2004 . ^ Rajadhyaksha & Willemen 1999 , p. 652. ^ "Economic Contribution of the Indian Motion Picture and Television Industry" (PDF) . Deloitte . March 2014 . Retrieved 21 April 2014 . ^ Narayan 2013 , pp. 66–67. ^ Kaminsky & Long 2011 , pp. 684–692. ^ Mehta 2008 , pp. 1–10. ^ Hansa Research 2012 . ^ Schwartzberg 2011 . ^ Makar 2007 . ^ a b Medora 2003 . ^ Jones & Ramdas 2005 , p. 111. ^ Biswas, Soutik (29 September 2016). "What divorce and separation tell us about modern India" . BBC News . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ Cullen-Dupont 2009 , p. 96. ^ Kapoor, Mudit; Shamika, Ravi (10 February 2014). "India's missing women" . The Hindu . Retrieved 17 November 2019 . In the last 50 years of Indian democracy, the absolute number of missing women has increased fourfold from 15 million to 68 million. This is not merely a reflection of the growth in the overall population, but, rather, of the fact that this dangerous trend has worsened with time. As a percentage of the female electorate, missing women have gone up significantly — from 13 per cent to approximately 20 per cent ^ "More than 63 million women 'missing' in India, statistics show" . Associated Press via The Guardian . 30 January 2018 . Retrieved 17 November 2019 . Quote: "More than 63 million women are "missing" statistically across India, and more than 21 million girls are unwanted by their families, government officials say. The skewed ratio of men to women is largely the result of sex-selective abortions, and better nutrition and medical care for boys, according to the government's annual economic survey, which was released on Monday. In addition, the survey found that "families where a son is born are more likely to stop having children than families where a girl is born". ^ Trivedi, Ira (15 August 2019). "A Generation of Girls Is Missing in India – Sex-selective abortion fuels a cycle of patriarchy and abuse" . Foreign Policy . Retrieved 17 November 2019 . Quote: "Although it has been illegal nationwide for doctors to disclose the sex of a fetus since the 1994 Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, the ease of ordering cheap and portable ultrasound machines, especially online, has kept the practice of sex-selective abortions alive." ^ Nelson, Dean (2 September 2013). "Woman killed over dowry 'every hour' in India" . The Daily Telegraph . Archived from the original on 23 March 2014 . Retrieved 10 February 2014 . ^ Pereira, Ignatius (6 August 2013). "Rising number of dowry deaths in India: NCRB" . The Hindu . Archived from the original on 7 February 2014 . Retrieved 10 February 2014 . ^ "Indian Festivals" , sscnet.ucla.edu , University of California, Los Angeles , archived from the original on 1 July 2016 , retrieved 14 May 2016 ^ "Popular India Festivals" , festivals.indobase.com , archived from the original on 28 July 2011 , retrieved 23 December 2007 ^ Pathania, Rajni (January 2020). "Literacy in India: Progress and Inequality" (PDF) . bangladeshsociology.org . 17 (1). Bangladesh e-Journal of Sociology . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ Natarajan, Dandapani (1971). "Extracts from the All India Census Reports on Literacy" (PDF) . Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, India . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ Chaudhary, Latika (March 2009). "Determinants of Primary Schooling in British India" . The Journal of Economic History . 69 (1): 269– 302. doi : 10.1017/S0022050709000400 . ISSN 0022-0507 . Retrieved 30 May 2024 . ^ "Study in India" . studyinindia.gov.in . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ "HRD to increase nearly 25 pc seats in varsities to implement 10 pc quota for poor in gen category" . The Economic Times . 15 January 2019 . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ "UDISE+ Dashboard" . dashboard.udiseplus.gov.in . Ministry of Education . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ "India achieves 27% decline in poverty" . Press Trust of India via Sify.com . 12 September 2008. Archived from the original on 20 February 2014 . Retrieved 18 October 2021 . ^ N. Jayapalan (2005). History of Education in India . Atlantic Publishers & Distributors. ISBN 978-81-7156-922-9 . ^ a b c d Tarlo 1996 , p. 26 ^ Tarlo 1996 , pp. 26–28 ^ a b c Alkazi, Roshen (2002), "Evolution of Indian Costume as a result of the links between Central Asia and India in ancient and medieval times" , in Rahman, Abdur (ed.), India's Interaction with China, Central and West Asia , Oxford University Press , pp. 464– 484, ISBN 978-0-19-565789-0 ^ Stevenson, Angus; Waite, Maurice (2011), Concise Oxford English Dictionary: Book & CD-ROM Set , Oxford University Press , p. 1272, ISBN 978-0-19-960110-3 , retrieved 3 September 2019 ^ Stevenson, Angus; Waite, Maurice (2011), Concise Oxford English Dictionary: Book & CD-ROM Set , Oxford University Press , p. 774, ISBN 978-0-19-960110-3 ^ Platts, John T. (John Thompson) (1884), A dictionary of Urdu, classical Hindi, and English , London: W. H. Allen & Co. , p. 418, archived from the original on 24 February 2021 , retrieved 26 August 2019 (online; updated February 2015) ^ Shukla, Pravina (2015), The Grace of Four Moons: Dress, Adornment, and the Art of the Body in Modern India , Indiana University Press , p. 71, ISBN 978-0-253-02121-2 ^ a b c d e Dwyer, Rachel (2014), Bollywood's India: Hindi Cinema as a Guide to Contemporary India , Reaktion Books , pp. 244– 245, ISBN 978-1-78023-304-8 ^ Dwyer, Rachel (2013), "Bombay Ishtyle" , in Stella Bruzzi, Pamela Church Gibson (ed.), Fashion Cultures: Theories, Explorations and Analysis , Routledge , pp. 178– 189, ISBN 978-1-136-29537-9 ^ a b c Davidson, Alan (2014), The Oxford Companion to Food , Oxford University Press , p. 409, ISBN 978-0-19-967733-7 ^ Davidson, Alan (2014), The Oxford Companion to Food , Oxford University Press , p. 161, ISBN 978-0-19-967733-7 , Chapatis are made from finely milled whole-wheat flour, called chapati flour or atta, and water. The dough is rolled into thin rounds which vary in size from region to region and then cooked without fat or oil on a slightly curved griddle called a tava. ^ Tamang, J. P.; Fleet, G. H. (2009), "Yeasts Diversity in Fermented Foods and Beverages" , in Satyanarayana, T.; Kunze, G. (eds.), Yeast Biotechnology: Diversity and Applications , Springer, p. 180, ISBN 978-1-4020-8292-4 , Idli is an acid-leavened and steamed cake made by bacterial fermentation of a thick batter made from coarsely ground rice and dehulled black gram. Idli cakes are soft, moist and spongy, have desirable sour flavour, and is eaten as breakfast in South India. Dosa batter is very similar to idli batter, except that both the rice and black gram are finely grounded. The batter is thinner than that of idli and is fried as a thin, crisp pancake and eaten directly in South India. ^ Jhala, Angma Day (2015), Royal Patronage, Power and Aesthetics in Princely India , Routledge, p. 70, ISBN 978-1-317-31657-2 , With the ascent of the Mughal Empire in sixteenth-century India, Turkic, Persian and Afghan traditions of dress, 'architecture and cuisine' were adopted by non-Muslim indigenous elites in South Asia. In this manner, Central Asian cooking merged with older traditions within the subcontinent, to create such signature dishes as biryani (a fusion of the Persian pilau and the spice-laden dishes of Hindustan),  and the Kashmiri meat stew of Rogan Josh. It not only generated new dishes and entire cuisines, but also fostered novel modes of eating. Such newer trends included the consumption of Persian condiments, which relied heavily on almonds, pastries and quince jams, alongside Indian achars made from sweet limes, green vegetables and curds as side relishes during Mughlai meals. ^ Panjabi, Camellia (1995), The Great Curries of India , Simon and Schuster , pp. 158–, ISBN 978-0-684-80383-8 , The Muslim influenced breads of India are leavened, like naan , Khamiri roti , ... ^ a b c Davidson, Alan (2014), The Oxford Companion to Food , Oxford University Press , p. 410, ISBN 978-0-19-967733-7 ^ Sahakian, Marlyne; Saloma, Czarina; Erkman, Suren (2016), Food Consumption in the City: Practices and patterns in urban Asia and the Pacific , Taylor & Francis , p. 50, ISBN 978-1-317-31050-1 ^ OECD; Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (2018), OECD-FAO Agricultural Outlook 2018–2027 , OECD Publishing , p. 21, ISBN 978-92-64-06203-0 ^ Roger 2000 . ^ Sengupta, Jayanta (2014), "India" , in Freedman, Paul; Chaplin, Joyce E.; Albala, Ken (eds.), Food in Time and Place: The American Historical Association Companion to Food History , University of California Press , p. 74, ISBN 978-0-520-27745-8 ^ a b c Collingham, Elizabeth M. (2007), Curry: A Tale of Cooks and Conquerors , Oxford University Press , p. 25, ISBN 978-0-19-532001-5 ^ Nandy, Ashis (2004), "The Changing Popular Culture of Indian Food: Preliminary Notes", South Asia Research , 24 (1): 9– 19, CiteSeerX 10.1.1.830.7136 , doi : 10.1177/0262728004042760 , ISSN 0262-7280 , S2CID 143223986 ^ Srinivasan, Radhika; Jermyn, Leslie; Lek, Hui Hui (2001), India , Times Books International, p. 109, ISBN 978-981-232-184-8 Quote: "Girls in India usually play jump rope, or hopscotch, and five stones, tossing the stones up in the air and catching them in many different ways ... the coconut-plucking contests, groundnut-eating races, ... of rural India." ^ Wolpert 2003 , p. 2. ^ Rediff 2008 b . ^ Graham, Bryan Armen (12 December 2024). "Gukesh Dommaraju becomes youngest world chess champion after horrific Ding Liren blunder" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Retrieved 12 December 2024 . ^ Binmore 2007 , p. 98. ^ Shores, Lori (15 February 2007), Teens in India , Compass Point Books , p. 78, ISBN 978-0-7565-2063-2 , archived from the original on 17 June 2012 , retrieved 24 July 2011 ^ "What India was crazy about: Hockey first, Cricket later, Football, Kabaddi now?" . India Today . 14 August 2017. ^ Commonwealth Games 2010 . ^ Cyriac 2010 . ^ British Broadcasting Corporation 2010 a . ^ Mint 2010 . ^ Xavier 2010 . ^ "From IPL to ISL, sports leagues in India to watch out for" . The Financial Express . 26 September 2021 . Retrieved 3 December 2021 . ^ "Indian Super League: Odisha president says sacking Stuart Baxter was 'the only course of action' " . Sky Sports . Retrieved 3 December 2021 . ^ "Kabaddi gets the IPL treatment" . BBC News . 6 August 2014 . Retrieved 3 December 2021 . Bibliography Overview "India" , The World Factbook , Central Intelligence Agency , retrieved 10 July 2021 "Country Profile: India" (PDF) , Library of Congress Country Studies (5th ed.), Library of Congress Federal Research Division , December 2004, archived from the original (PDF) on 27 September 2011 , retrieved 30 September 2011 Heitzman, James; Worden, Robert L. (1996), India: A Country Study , Area Handbook Series, Washington, D.C.: Library of Congress , ISBN 978-0-8444-0833-0 India , International Monetary Fund , retrieved 14 October 2011 Provisional Population Totals Paper 1 of 2011 India , Office of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner , retrieved 18 October 2021 Robinson, Francis, ed. The Cambridge Encyclopedia of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan and the Maldives (1989) Constituent Assembly of India – Volume XII , National Informatics Centre , Government of India , 24 January 1950, archived from the original on 21 July 2011 , retrieved 17 July 2011 Etymology Barrow, Ian J. (2003). "From Hindustan to India: Naming change in changing names". South Asia: Journal of South Asian Studies . 26 (1): 37– 49. doi : 10.1080/085640032000063977 . S2CID 144039519 . Clémentin-Ojha, Catherine (2014). " 'India, that is Bharat...': One Country, Two Names" . South Asia Multidisciplinary Academic Journal . 10 . Archived from the original on 28 September 2015. Thieme, P. (1970). "Sanskrit sindu-/Sindhu- and Old Iranian hindu-/Hindu- ". In Mary Boyce; Ilya Gershevitch (eds.). W. B. Henning Memorial Volume . Lund Humphries . ISBN 978-0-85331-255-0 . History Asher, C. B.; Talbot, C. (2006), India Before Europe , Cambridge University Press , ISBN 978-0-521-80904-7 Asher, C. B.; Talbot, C. (2008), India Before Europe t , Cambridge University Press , ISBN 978-0-521-51750-8 Brown, J. M. (1994), Modern India: The Origins of an Asian Democracy , The Short Oxford History of the Modern World (2nd ed.), Oxford University Press , ISBN 978-0-19-873113-9 Coningham, Robin; Young, Ruth (2015), The Archaeology of South Asia: From the Indus to Asoka, c. 6500 BCE – 200 CE , Cambridge University Press , ISBN 978-0-521-84697-4 Copland, I. (2001), India 1885–1947: The Unmaking of an Empire , Longman , ISBN 978-0-582-38173-5 Doniger, Wendy (2014), On Hinduism , Oxford University Press , pp. xviii, 10, ISBN 978-0-19-936009-3 Kulke, H. ; Rothermund, D. (2004), A History of India , 4th, Routledge , ISBN 978-0-415-32920-0 Lowe, John J. (2015), Participles in Rigvedic Sanskrit: The Syntax and Semantics of Adjectival Verb Forms , Oxford University Press , ISBN 978-0-19-100505-3 Ludden, D. (2002), India and South Asia: A Short History , Oneworld Publications , ISBN 978-1-85168-237-9 Ludden, D. (2014), India and South Asia: A Short History (2nd, revised ed.), Oneworld Publications , ISBN 978-1-85168-936-1 Metcalf, Barbara D. ; Metcalf, Thomas R. (2006), A Concise History of Modern India (2nd ed.), Cambridge University Press , ISBN 978-0-521-68225-1 Metcalf, Barbara D.; Metcalf, Thomas R. (2012), A Concise History of Modern India , Cambridge University Press , ISBN 978-1-107-02649-0 Peers, D. M. (2006), India under Colonial Rule: 1700–1885 , Pearson Longman , ISBN 978-0-582-31738-3 Peers, D. M. (2013), India Under Colonial Rule: 1700–1885 , Routledge , ISBN 978-1-317-88286-2 , retrieved 13 August 2019 Petraglia, Michael D.; Allchin, Bridget (2007), "Human evolution and culture change in the Indian subcontinent" , in Michael Petraglia; Bridget Allchin (eds.), The Evolution and History of Human Populations in South Asia: Inter-disciplinary Studies in Archaeology, Biological Anthropology, Linguistics and Genetics , Springer Publishing , ISBN 978-1-4020-5562-1 Possehl, G. (2003), The Indus Civilization: A Contemporary Perspective , Rowman Altamira , ISBN 978-0-7591-0172-2 Robb, P. (2001), A History of India , Palgrave , ISBN 978-0-333-69129-8 Robb, P. (2011), A History of India , Palgrave Macmillan , ISBN 978-0-230-34549-2 Sarkar, S. (1983), Modern India: 1885–1947 , Delhi: Macmillan , ISBN 978-0-333-90425-1 Singh, Upinder (2009), A History of Ancient and Medieval India: From the Stone Age to the 12th Century , Delhi: Longman , ISBN 978-81-317-1677-9 Singh, Upinder (2017), Political Violence in Ancient India , Harvard University Press , ISBN 978-0-674-98128-7 Sripati, V. (1998), "Toward Fifty Years of Constitutionalism and Fundamental Rights in India: Looking Back to See Ahead (1950–2000)", American University International Law Review , 14 (2): 413– 496 Stein, B. (1998), A History of India , Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell , ISBN 978-0-631-20546-3 Stein, B. (2010), Arnold, D. (ed.), A History of India (2nd ed.), Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell , ISBN 978-1-4051-9509-6 Witzel, Michael (2003), "Vedas and Upanișads" , in Gavin D. Flood (ed.), The Blackwell companion to Hinduism , John Wiley & Sons , ISBN 978-0-631-21535-6 , retrieved 15 March 2012 Wolpert, S. (2003), A New History of India (7th ed.), Oxford University Press , ISBN 978-0-19-516678-1 Geography Ali, J. R.; Aitchison, J. C. (2005), "Greater India", Earth-Science Reviews , 72 ( 3– 4): 170– 173, Bibcode : 2005ESRv...72..169A , doi : 10.1016/j.earscirev.2005.07.005 Basu, Mahua; Xavier, Savarimuthu (2017), Fundamentals of Environmental Studies , Cambridge University Press , ISBN 978-1-316-87051-8 Chang, J. H. (1967), "The Indian Summer Monsoon", Geographical Review , vol. 57, no. 3, American Geographical Society , Wiley, pp. 373– 396, Bibcode : 1967GeoRv..57..373C , doi : 10.2307/212640 , JSTOR 212640 Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 with Amendments Made in 1988 (PDF) , Department of Environment and Forests, Government of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 1988, archived from the original (PDF) on 21 July 2011 , retrieved 25 July 2011 Dikshit, K. R.; Schwartzberg, Joseph E. (2023), "India: Land" , Encyclopædia Britannica , pp. 1– 29 Duff, D. (1993), Holmes Principles of Physical Geology (4th ed.), Routledge , ISBN 978-0-7487-4381-0 Kaul, R. N. (1970), "The Indian Subcontinent: Indo-Pakistan", in Kaul, R. N. (ed.), Afforestation in Arid Zones , The Hague: Dr. W. Junk, N.V., Publishers, ISBN 978-94-010-3352-7 Kumar, V. Sanil; Pathak, K. C.; Pednekar, P.; Raju, N. S. N.; Gowthaman, R. (2006), "Coastal processes along the Indian coastline" (PDF) , Current Science , vol. 91, no. 4, pp. 530– 536, archived from the original (PDF) on 8 September 2009 Mcgrail, Sean; Blue, Lucy; Kentley, Eric; Palmer, Colin (2003), Boats of South Asia , Routledge , ISBN 978-1-134-43130-4 India Yearbook 2007 , New Delhi: Publications Division, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting , Government of India , 2007, ISBN 978-81-230-1423-4 Posey, C. A. (1994), The Living Earth Book of Wind and Weather , Reader's Digest , ISBN 978-0-89577-625-9 Prakash, B.; Kumar, S.; Rao, M. S.; Giri, S. C. (2000), "Holocene Tectonic Movements and Stress Field in the Western Gangetic Plains" (PDF) , Current Science , 79 (4): 438– 449 Prasad, Ishwar (1974), "The Ecology of Vertebrates of the Indian Desert", in Mani, M. S. (ed.), Ecology and Biogeography in India , The Hague: Dr. W. Junk bv Publishers, ISBN 978-94-010-2333-7 Biodiversity Basak, R. K. (1983), Botanical Survey of India: Account of Its Establishment, Development, and Activities , India. Department of Environment , retrieved 20 July 2011 Crame, J. A.; Owen, A. W. (2002), Palaeobiogeography and Biodiversity Change: The Ordovician and Mesozoic–Cenozoic Radiations , Geological Society Special Publication, Geological Society of London , ISBN 978-1-86239-106-2 , retrieved 8 December 2011 Karanth, K. Ullas; Gopal, Rajesh (2005), "An ecology-based policy framework for human-tiger coexistence in India", in Rosie Woodroffe; Simon Thirgood; Alan Rabinowitz (eds.), People and Wildlife, Conflict Or Co-existence? , Cambridge University Press , ISBN 978-0-521-53203-7 Karanth, K. P. (2006), "Out-of-India Gondwanan Origin of Some Tropical Asian Biota" (PDF) , Current Science , 90 (6): 789– 792, archived from the original (PDF) on 11 April 2019 , retrieved 18 May 2011 Mace, G. M. (1994), "1994 IUCN Red List of Threatened Animals" , World Conservation Monitoring Centre , International Union for Conservation of Nature , ISBN 978-2-8317-0194-3 Tritsch, M. F. (2001), Wildlife of India , London: HarperCollins , ISBN 978-0-00-711062-9 Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 , Ministry of Environment and Forests , Government of India , 9 September 1972 , retrieved 25 July 2011 Politics Banerjee, Sumanta (22 July 2005). "Civilising the BJP". Economic & Political Weekly . 40 (29): 3116– 3119. JSTOR 4416896 . Bhambhri, C. P. (1992), Politics in India, 1991–1992 , Shipra, ISBN 978-81-85402-17-8 , retrieved 20 July 2011 Burnell, P. J.; Calvert, P. (1999), The Resilience of Democracy: Persistent Practice, Durable Idea , Taylor & Francis , ISBN 978-0-7146-8026-2 , retrieved 20 July 2011 India, Press Trust of (16 May 2009), "Second UPA Win, A Crowning Glory for Sonia's Ascendancy" , Business Standard India , Press Trust of India, archived from the original on 5 March 2016 , retrieved 13 June 2009 Chander, N. J. (2004), Coalition Politics: The Indian Experience , Concept Publishing Company, ISBN 978-81-8069-092-1 , retrieved 20 July 2011 Dunleavy, P.; Diwakar, R.; Dunleavy, C. (2007), The Effective Space of Party Competition (PDF) , London School of Economics and Political Science, archived from the original (PDF) on 28 October 2007 , retrieved 27 September 2011 Dutt, S. (1998), "Identities and the Indian State: An Overview", Third World Quarterly , 19 (3): 411– 434, doi : 10.1080/01436599814325 Echeverri-Gent, J. (January 2002), "Politics in India's Decentred Polity" , in Ayres, A.; Oldenburg, P. (eds.), Quickening the Pace of Change , India Briefing, London: M. E. Sharpe , pp. 19–53 , ISBN 978-0-7656-0812-3 "Current Recognised Parties" (PDF) , Election Commission of India , 14 March 2009 , retrieved 5 July 2010 Madhavan, M. R. (2024), "The Lok Sabha" , in Ganguly, Sumit; Sridharan, Eshwaran (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Indian Politics , Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-889428-5 Gledhill, A. (1970), The Republic of India: The Development of its Laws and Constitution , Greenwood , ISBN 978-0-8371-2813-9 , retrieved 21 July 2011 Malik, Yogendra K.; Singh, V. B. (April 1992). "Bharatiya Janata Party: An Alternative to the Congress (I)?". Asian Survey . 32 (4): 318– 336. doi : 10.2307/2645149 . JSTOR 2645149 . Mathew, K. M. (2003), Manorama Yearbook , Malayala Manorama , ISBN 978-81-900461-8-3 , retrieved 21 July 2011 "National Symbols" , Know India , National Informatics Centre , Government of India , archived from the original on 18 April 2021 , retrieved 18 April 2021 Neuborne, Burt (2003), "The Supreme Court of India", International Journal of Constitutional Law , 1 (3): 476– 510, doi : 10.1093/icon/1.3.476 Pylee, M. V. (2003a), "The Longest Constitutional Document" , Constitutional Government in India (2nd ed.), S. Chand , ISBN 978-81-219-2203-6 Pylee, M. V. (2003b), "The Union Judiciary: The Supreme Court" , Constitutional Government in India (2nd ed.), S. Chand , ISBN 978-81-219-2203-6 , retrieved 2 November 2007 Sarkar, N. I. (2007), Sonia Gandhi: Tryst with India , Atlantic , ISBN 978-81-269-0744-1 , retrieved 20 July 2011 Sharma, R. (1950), "Cabinet Government in India", Parliamentary Affairs , 4 (1): 116– 126, doi : 10.1093/oxfordjournals.pa.a052755 Sharma, B. K. (2007), Introduction to the Constitution of India (4th ed.), Prentice Hall , ISBN 978-81-203-3246-1 Sinha, A. (2004), "The Changing Political Economy of Federalism in India", India Review , 3 (1): 25– 63, doi : 10.1080/14736480490443085 , S2CID 154543286 Wheare, K. C. (1980), Federal Government (4th ed.), Oxford University Press , ISBN 978-0-313-22702-8 Foreign relations and military Alford, P. (7 July 2008), "G8 Plus 5 Equals Power Shift" , The Australian , retrieved 21 November 2009 Behera, L. K. (7 March 2011), Budgeting for India's Defence: An Analysis of Defence Budget 2011–2012 , Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses , retrieved 4 April 2011 "Russia Agrees India Nuclear Deal" , BBC News , BBC , 11 February 2009 , retrieved 22 August 2010 Curry, B. (27 June 2010), "Canada Signs Nuclear Deal with India" , The Globe and Mail , archived from the original on 25 May 2017 , retrieved 13 May 2011 "EU-India Strategic Partnership" , Europa: Summaries of EU Legislation , European Union , 8 April 2008, archived from the original on 3 May 2011 , retrieved 14 January 2011 Ghosh, A. (2009), India's Foreign Policy , Pearson , ISBN 978-81-317-1025-8 Gilbert, M. (2002), A History of the Twentieth Century , William Morrow , ISBN 978-0-06-050594-3 , retrieved 22 July 2011 Kumar, A. V. (1 May 2010), "Reforming the NPT to Include India" , Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists , archived from the original on 7 April 2014 , retrieved 1 November 2010 Miglani, S. (28 February 2011), "With An Eye on China, India Steps Up Defence Spending" , Reuters , archived from the original on 2 May 2011 , retrieved 6 July 2011 Nair, V. K. (2007), "No More Ambiguity: India's Nuclear Policy" (PDF) , afsa.org , archived from the original (PDF) on 27 September 2007 , retrieved 7 June 2007 Pandit, Rajat (27 July 2009), "N-Submarine to Give India Crucial Third Leg of Nuke Triad" , The Times of India , archived from the original on 11 August 2011 , retrieved 10 March 2010 Pandit, Rajat (8 January 2015), "Make-in-India: Plan to develop 5th-generation fighter aircraft" , The Times of India , archived from the original on 11 March 2015 , retrieved 17 October 2021 Pandit, Rajat (16 March 2021). "India's weapon imports fell by 33% in last five years but remains world's second-largest arms importer" . The Times of India . Retrieved 3 February 2022 . Pandit, Rajat (1 February 2022). "Strong push for indigenous weapons amidst modest hike in defence budget" . The Times of India . Retrieved 3 February 2022 . Perkovich, G. (2001), India's Nuclear Bomb: The Impact on Global Proliferation , University of California Press , ISBN 978-0-520-23210-5 , retrieved 22 July 2011 India, France Agree on Civil Nuclear Cooperation , Rediff , 25 January 2008 , retrieved 22 August 2010 "UK, India Sign Civil Nuclear Accord" , Reuters , 13 February 2010, archived from the original on 12 May 2012 , retrieved 22 August 2010 Rothermund, D. (2000), The Routledge Companion to Decolonization , Routledge Companions to History, Routledge , ISBN 978-0-415-35632-9 Sharma, S. R. (1999), India–USSR Relations 1947–1971: From Ambivalence to Steadfastness , vol. 1, Discovery, ISBN 978-81-7141-486-4 Sisodia, N. S.; Naidu, G. V. C. (2005), Changing Security Dynamic in Eastern Asia: Focus on Japan , Promilla, ISBN 978-81-86019-52-8 "India, US Sign 123 Agreement" , The Times of India , 11 October 2008, archived from the original on 7 November 2011 , retrieved 21 July 2011 Economy Alamgir, J. (2008), India's Open-Economy Policy: Globalism, Rivalry, Continuity , Taylor & Francis , ISBN 978-0-415-77684-4 , retrieved 23 July 2011 Bonner, B (20 March 2010), "Make Way, World. India Is on the Move" , The Christian Science Monitor , retrieved 23 July 2011 Farrell, D.; Beinhocker, E. (19 May 2007), Next Big Spenders: India's Middle Class , McKinsey & Company , archived from the original on 5 December 2011 , retrieved 17 September 2011 Gargan, E. A. (15 August 1992), "India Stumbles in Rush to a Free Market Economy" , The New York Times , retrieved 22 July 2011 Hawksworth, John; Tiwari, Anmol (January 2011), The World in 2050: The Accelerating Shift of Global Economic Power: Challenges and Opportunities (PDF) , PricewaterhouseCoopers , retrieved 23 July 2011 Nayak, P. B.; Goldar, B.; Agrawal, P. (2010), India's Economy and Growth: Essays in Honour of V. K. R. V. Rao , SAGE Publications , ISBN 978-81-321-0452-0 Pal, P.; Ghosh, J (July 2007), "Inequality in India: A Survey of Recent Trends" (PDF) , DESA Working Paper No. 45 , United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs , retrieved 23 July 2011 Schwab, K. (2010), The Global Competitiveness Report 2010–2011 (PDF) , World Economic Forum , retrieved 10 May 2011 Sheth, N. (28 May 2009), "Outlook for Outsourcing Spending Brightens" , The Wall Street Journal , retrieved 3 October 2010 Yep, E. (27 September 2011), "ReNew Wind Power Gets $201 Million Goldman Investment" , The Wall Street Journal , retrieved 27 September 2011 "India Second Fastest Growing Auto Market After China" , Business Line , 10 April 2010 , retrieved 23 July 2011 "India world's second largest textiles exporter: UN Comtrade" . The Economic Times . 2 June 2014. Archived from the original on 5 June 2014 . Retrieved 17 October 2021 . "India's Economy: Not Just Rubies and Polyester Shirts" , The Economist , 8 October 2011 , retrieved 9 October 2011 "Indian Car Exports Surge 36%" , Express India , 13 October 2009, archived from the original on 28 April 2016 , retrieved 5 April 2016 "Measuring the cost of living worldwide" , The Economist , 21 March 2017, archived from the original on 25 May 2017 , retrieved 25 May 2017 Economic Survey of India 2007: Policy Brief (PDF) , Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development , October 2007, archived from the original (PDF) on 6 June 2011 , retrieved 22 July 2011 India: Undernourished Children – A Call for Reform and Action , World Bank , archived from the original on 7 May 2012 , retrieved 23 July 2011 Indian IT-BPO Industry , NASSCOM , 2011–2012, archived from the original on 9 May 2012 , retrieved 22 June 2012 Understanding the WTO: The Organization Members and Observers , World Trade Organization , 1995, archived from the original on 29 December 2009 , retrieved 23 June 2012 World Economic Outlook Update , International Monetary Fund , June 2011 , retrieved 22 July 2011 Demographics Chandramouli, C. (15 July 2011), Rural Urban Distribution of Population (PDF) , Ministry of Home Affairs (India) , retrieved 24 January 2015 Dharwadker, A. (2010), "Representing India's Pasts: Time, Culture, and Problems of Performance Historiography" , in Canning, C. M.; Postlewait, T. (eds.), Representing the Past: Essays in Performance Historiography , University of Iowa Press , ISBN 978-1-58729-905-6 , retrieved 24 July 2011 Drèze, J.; Goyal, A. (2009), "The Future of Mid-Day Meals" , in Baru, R. V. (ed.), School Health Services in India: The Social and Economic Contexts , SAGE Publications , ISBN 978-81-7829-873-3 Dyson, T.; Visaria, P. (2005), "Migration and Urbanisation: Retrospect and Prospects" , in Dyson, T.; Casses, R.; Visaria, L. (eds.), Twenty-First Century India: Population, Economy, Human Development, and the Environment , Oxford University Press , ISBN 978-0-19-928382-8 Dyson, Tim (2018), A Population History of India: From the First Modern People to the Present Day , Oxford University Press , ISBN 978-0-19-882905-8 Fisher, Michael H. (2018), An Environmental History of India: From Earliest Times to the Twenty-First Century , Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press , doi : 10.1017/9781316276044 , ISBN 978-1-107-11162-2 , LCCN 2018021693 , S2CID 134229667 Garg, S. C. (19 April 2005), Mobilizing Urban Infrastructure Finance in India (PDF) , World Bank , archived from the original (PDF) on 24 August 2009 , retrieved 27 January 2010 Mallikarjun, B (November 2004), "Fifty Years of Language Planning for Modern Hindi – The Official Language of India" , Language in India , 4 (11), ISSN 1930-2940 , archived from the original on 10 January 2018 , retrieved 24 July 2011 Ottenheimer, H. J. (2008), The Anthropology of Language: An Introduction to Linguistic Anthropology , Cengage , ISBN 978-0-495-50884-7 Ratna, U. (2007), "Interface Between Urban and Rural Development in India" , in Dutt, A. K.; Thakur, B. (eds.), City, Society, and Planning , vol. 1, Concept, ISBN 978-81-8069-459-2 Rorabacher, J. A. (2010), Hunger and Poverty in South Asia , Gyan, ISBN 978-81-212-1027-0 Notification No. 2/8/60-O.L , Ministry of Home Affairs , Government of India , 27 April 1960, archived from the original on 1 October 2014 , retrieved 13 May 2011 "Census Data 2001" , Office of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner , Ministry of Home Affairs , Government of India , 2010–2011 , retrieved 22 July 2011 Art Blurton, T. Richard (1993), Hindu Art , Harvard University Press , ISBN 978-0-674-39189-5 Craven, Roy C (1997), Indian art: a concise history , New York City: Thames & Hudson , ISBN 978-0-500-20302-6 , OCLC 37895110 Harle, James C. (1994), The Art and Architecture of the Indian Subcontinent , Yale University Press , ISBN 978-0-300-06217-5 Michell, George (2000), Hindu Art and Architecture , Thames & Hudson , ISBN 978-0-500-20337-8 Rowland, Benjamin (1970), The Art and Architecture of India: Buddhist, Hindu, Jain , Penguin Books Culture Binmore, K. G. (2007), Playing for Real: A Text on Game Theory , Oxford University Press , ISBN 978-0-19-530057-4 Chopra, P. (2011), A Joint Enterprise: Indian Elites and the Making of British Bombay , University of Minnesota Press , ISBN 978-0-8166-7037-6 Cullen-Dupont, K. (July 2009), Human Trafficking , Infobase Publishing , ISBN 978-0-8160-7545-4 Cyriac, B. B. (9 August 2010), "Sawant Shoots Historic Gold at World Championships" , The Times of India , retrieved 25 May 2011 Das, S. K. (2005), A History of Indian Literature, 500–1399: From Courtly to the Popular , Sahitya Akademi , ISBN 978-81-260-2171-0 Datta, A. (2006), The Encyclopaedia of Indian Literature , vol. 2, Sahitya Akademi , ISBN 978-81-260-1194-0 Dehejia, R. S. (7 November 2011), "Indian Grand Prix Vs. Encephalitis?" , The Wall Street Journal , retrieved 20 December 2011 Deutsch, E. (1969), Advaita Vedānta: A Philosophical Reconstruction , University of Hawaiʻi Press , ISBN 978-0-8248-0271-4 Dissanayake, W. K.; Gokulsing, M. (May 2004), Indian Popular Cinema: A Narrative of Cultural Change (2nd ed.), Trentham Books , ISBN 978-1-85856-329-9 Futterman, M; Sharma, A (11 September 2009), "India Aims for Center Court" , The Wall Street Journal , retrieved 29 September 2010 Hansa Research (2012). "Growth: Literacy & Media Consumption" (PDF) . Indian Readership Survey 2012 Q1 : Topline Findings . Media Research Users Council. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 April 2014 . Retrieved 12 September 2012 . Hart, G. L. (1975), Poems of Ancient Tamil: Their Milieu and Their Sanskrit Counterparts , University of California Press , ISBN 978-0-520-02672-8 Heehs, P., ed. (2002), Indian Religions: A Historical Reader of Spiritual Expression and Experience , New York University Press , ISBN 978-0-8147-3650-0 , retrieved 24 July 2011 Hoiberg, D.; Ramchandani, I. (2000), Students' Britannica India: Select Essays , Popular Prakashan , ISBN 978-0-85229-762-9 Johnson, W. J., ed. (2008), The Sauptikaparvan of the Mahabharata: The Massacre at Night , Oxford World's Classics (2nd ed.), Oxford University Press , ISBN 978-0-19-282361-8 Jones, G.; Ramdas, K. (2005), (Un)tying the Knot: Ideal and Reality in Asian Marriage , National University of Singapore Press , ISBN 978-981-05-1428-0 Kālidāsa ; Johnson, W. J. (2001), The Recognition of Śakuntalā: A Play in Seven Acts , Oxford University Press , ISBN 978-0-19-283911-4 Kaminsky, Arnold P.; Long, Roger D. (2011), India Today: An Encyclopedia of Life in the Republic: An Encyclopedia of Life in the Republic , ABC-CLIO , ISBN 978-0-313-37462-3 , retrieved 12 September 2012 Karanth, S. K. (2002), Yakṣagāna , Abhinav Publications, ISBN 978-81-7017-357-1 Kiple, K. F.; Ornelas, K. C., eds. (2000), The Cambridge World History of Food , vol. 2, Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press , ISBN 978-0-521-40215-6 Kuiper, K., ed. (2010), The Culture of India , Britannica Educational Publishing , ISBN 978-1-61530-203-1 , retrieved 24 July 2011 Kumar, V. (2000), Vastushastra , All You Wanted to Know About Series (2nd ed.), Sterling Publishing , ISBN 978-81-207-2199-9 Lal, A. (2004), The Oxford Companion to Indian Theatre , Oxford University Press , ISBN 978-0-19-564446-3 , retrieved 24 July 2011 Lang, J.; Moleski, W. (1 December 2010), Functionalism Revisited , Ashgate Publishing , ISBN 978-1-4094-0701-0 MacDonell, A. A. (2004), A History of Sanskrit Literature , Kessinger Publishing , ISBN 978-1-4179-0619-2 Majumdar, B.; Bandyopadhyay, K. (2006), A Social History of Indian Football: Striving To Score , Routledge , ISBN 978-0-415-34835-5 Makar, E. M. (2007), An American's Guide to Doing Business in India , Adams, ISBN 978-1-59869-211-2 Massey, R.; Massey, J (1998), The Music of India , Abhinav Publications, ISBN 978-81-7017-332-8 Medora, N. (2003), "Mate Selection in Contemporary India: Love Marriages Versus Arranged Marriages", in Hamon, R. R.; Ingoldsby, B. B. (eds.), Mate Selection Across Cultures , SAGE Publications , pp. 209– 230, ISBN 978-0-7619-2592-7 Mehta, Nalin (2008), Television in India: Satellites, Politics and Cultural Change , Taylor & Francis US, ISBN 978-0-415-44759-1 , retrieved 12 September 2012 Narayan, Sunetra Sen (2013), "Context of Broadcasting in India", Globalization and Television: A Study of the Indian Experience, 1990–2010 , Oxford University Press , pp. 55– 69, doi : 10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198092360.003.0004 , ISBN 978-0-19-809236-0 Sengupta, R. (24 September 2010), "Is Boxing the New Cricket?" , Mint , retrieved 5 October 2010 Nakamura, H. (1999), Indian Buddhism: A Survey with Bibliographical Notes , Buddhist Tradition Series (12th ed.), Motilal Banarsidass , ISBN 978-81-208-0272-8 Rajadhyaksha, A.; Willemen, P., eds. (1999), Encyclopaedia of Indian Cinema (2nd ed.), British Film Institute , ISBN 978-0-85170-669-6 Poems of Love and War: From the Eight Anthologies and the Ten Long Poems of Classical Tamil , translated by Ramanujan, A. K. , New York: Columbia University Press , 1985, ISBN 978-0-231-05107-1 Roberts, N. W. (2004), Building Type Basics for Places of Worship , John Wiley & Sons , ISBN 978-0-471-22568-3 Roger, Delphine. " The Middle East and South Asia (in Chapter: History and Culture of Food and Drink in Asia) ". In Kiple & Ornelas (2000) , pp. 1140–1150. Schwartzberg, J. (2011), "India: Caste" , Encyclopædia Britannica , retrieved 17 July 2011 Silverman, S. (2007), Vastu: Transcendental Home Design in Harmony with Nature , Gibbs Smith , ISBN 978-1-4236-0132-6 Tarlo, E. (1996), Clothing Matters: Dress and Identity in India , University of Chicago Press , ISBN 978-0-226-78976-7 , retrieved 24 July 2011 Xavier, L. (12 September 2010), "Sushil Kumar Wins Gold in World Wrestling Championship" , The Times of India , retrieved 5 October 2010 Zvelebil, K. V. (1997), Companion Studies to the History of Tamil Literature , Brill Publishers , ISBN 978-90-04-09365-2 Anand Crowned World Champion , Rediff , 29 October 2008 , retrieved 29 October 2008 "Taj Mahal" , World Heritage Convention , United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation , retrieved 3 March 2012 "Saina Nehwal: India's Badminton Star and "New Woman" " , BBC News , 1 August 2010 , retrieved 5 October 2010 "Commonwealth Games 2010: India Dominate Shooting Medals" , Commonwealth Games 2010 , BBC , 7 October 2010 , retrieved 3 June 2011 External links India at Wikipedia's sister projects Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Commons News from Wikinews Quotations from Wikiquote Texts from Wikisource Textbooks from Wikibooks Resources from Wikiversity Travel information from Wikivoyage Government Official website of the Government of India Government of India Web Directory General information India . The World Factbook . Central Intelligence Agency . India web resources provided by GovPubs at the University of Colorado Boulder Libraries India from BBC News Wikimedia Atlas of India Geographic data related to India at OpenStreetMap Key Development Forecasts for India from International Futures v t e India topics History Overviews Timeline Years Astronomy Clothing Coinage Economics LGBT Linguistics Maritime Mathematics Metallurgy Military Paper currency Postal Science and technology Ancient Stone Age Indus Valley Civilisation Vedic period Mahajanapadas Mauryas Yavana Kingdom Achaemenid conquest of the Indus Valley Indo-Parthian Kingdom Kushan Empire Alchon Huns Seleucid–Mauryan war Middle Kingdoms Middle kingdoms Chola Middle Ages Medieval India Hoysala Pala Kakatiya Delhi Sultanate Vijayanagara Early Modern Mughals Marathas European trade Bengal War Late modern Colonial Princely state East India Company Plassey 1857 rebellion British Raj Railways Economy Army Commander-in-Chief Zamindari Bengal Renaissance Political reforms Partition of Bengal Independence movement 1943 famine World War II Partition Republic Integration Non-Aligned Movement Five-Year Plans Sino-Indian War Indo-Pakistani wars Green Revolution White Revolution Naxal Insurgency Smiling Buddha Space programme The Emergency Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) Contemporary History of India (1947–present) Economic liberalisation Pokhran-II COVID-19 pandemic Geography Geology Fossil Parks Geology of India Indian Plate Heritage National Geological Monuments of India Sacred groves of India Sacred mountains of India Sacred rivers of India Stones of India Environment Biogeographic classification Biosphere reserves Climate Climate change Earthquakes Ecoregions Environmental issues Fauna Forests Flora Geology National parks Protected areas Wildlife sanctuaries Landforms Beaches Canals Coasts Desert ECZ Extreme points Glaciers Highest point by states Islands Lakes Mountains Mountain passes Plains Indo-Gangetic Eastern coastal Western coastal Rivers Valleys Volcanoes Waterfalls Regions Central East North Northwest Northeast South Southwest Southeast West Subdivisions Autonomous administrative divisions Borders Towns Cities Districts Municipalities States and union territories See also National monuments of India National parks of India Nature worship in Indian-origin religions World Heritage Sites in India Culture of India History of India Tourism in India Politics Government Agencies Energy policy Foreign relations Parliament Lok Sabha Rajya Sabha President Vice President Prime Minister Union Council of Ministers Civil Services Cabinet Secretary State governments State legislative assemblies State legislative councils Governors, Lieutenant Governors and Administrators Chief Ministers Chief Secretaries Law Constitution Penal Code Fundamental rights, principles and duties Human rights LGBT Supreme Court Chief Justice High Courts District Courts Enforcement Federal Border Security Force (BSF) Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) National Security Guard (NSG) Railway Protection Force (RPF) Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) Special Protection Group (SPG) Intelligence Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) Enforcement Directorate (ED) Intelligence Bureau (IB) Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC) Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) National Investigation Agency (NIA) Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) Military Army Navy Air Force Politics Censorship Citizenship Elections Democracy Nationalism Political parties Reservations Scandals Scheduled groups Secularism Women in politics Economy Companies BSE SENSEX NIFTY 50 Governance Ministry of Finance Finance ministers Ministry of Commerce and Industry Finance Commission Economic Advisory Council Central Statistical Office Securities and Exchange Board of India Enforcement Directorate External debt Foreign trade Foreign direct investment Foreign exchange reserves Remittances Taxation Subsidies Industrial licensing Voluntary guidelines NITI Aayog Make in India Atmanirbhar Bharat Currency Indian rupee Sign History Historical Forex Digital rupee Coinage Paisa Reserve Bank of India Governor Mint Inflation Financial services Banking Insurance Multi Commodity Exchange Bullion Black money Bombay National History COVID-19 impact Economic development Liberalisation Licence Raj Green revolution Government initiatives Numbering system People By net worth Demography Income Poverty Labour law Pensions EPFO NPS PPF States Andhra Pradesh Assam Bihar Delhi Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu and Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Ladakh Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Mizoram Odisha Punjab Rajasthan Tamil Nadu Telangana Uttarakhand Uttar Pradesh West Bengal Sectors Agriculture Livestock Fishing Automotive Chemical Construction Defence Education Energy Electricity Nuclear Oil and gas Solar Wind Electronics and semiconductor Entertainment Forestry Gambling Healthcare Hospitals Information technology Media Cinema FM Radio Television Printing Mining Coal Iron and Steel Pharmaceuticals Pulp and paper Retail Science and technology Biotechnology Space Telecommunications Textiles Tourism Transport Aviation Civil Ports Rail Roads Electricity Water Power Regulator IRDAI RBI SEBI IBBI PFRDA Other NCLT NCLAT BIFR IBBI IBC SARFESI Act Income Tax Act Companies Act Banking Act Insurance Act FEMA Mumbai Consensus Society and culture Society Caste system Corruption Crime Demographics Indians Education Universities in India Medical colleges in India Law colleges in India Engineering colleges in India Ethnic relations Health Languages Life expectancy Literacy Poverty Prisons Religion Socio-economic issues Standard of living Water supply and sanitation Women Sexuality Youth Culture Arts and entertainment Architecture Blogging Cinema Comics Webcomics Cuisine wine Dance Dress Folklore Festivals Literature Media television Martial arts Music Painting Physical culture Public holidays Sculpture tallest Sport Traditional Related topics v t e States and union territories of India States Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chhattisgarh Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Odisha Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamil Nadu Telangana Tripura Uttar Pradesh Uttarakhand West Bengal Union territories Andaman and Nicobar Islands Chandigarh Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu Delhi Jammu and Kashmir Ladakh Lakshadweep Puducherry Capitals in India Autonomous administrative divisions of India Proposed states and union territories Historical Regions British Provinces v t e South Asian topics Countries and regions Afghanistan (sometimes not included) Bangladesh Bhutan India Regions Maldives Nepal Pakistan Regions Sri Lanka South Asian regions Northwestern Northern Eastern Southern General geography Ethnic groups Andamanese Austroasiatic Austronesian Dravidian Indo-Aryan Iranic Nuristani Tibeto-Burman Turkic Other groups Afro-Asians Chinese European and Eurasian Semitic Diaspora Culture Architecture‎ Art Cinema Cuisine Cultural sphere Fashion Languages Literature Music Mythology Philosophy Scripts Surnames Environment Monsoon Climate change Economy and Politics Human rights in South Asia Religious nationalism Hindu Muslim Sikh Stock exchanges Caste system History Archaeology Archaeological cultures Bronze Age Iron Age Middle kingdoms Medieval Early modern Colonial era Contemporary era Former countries Religion Dharmic Buddhism Hinduism Jainism Sikhism Islam Religious persecution Bangladesh India Pakistan Sports Cricket South Asian Football Federation South Asian Games Martial arts Physical culture Traditional games Education South Asian studies History Military Indo-Pakistani conflicts Sino-Indian border dispute Afghanistan–Pakistan skirmishes Science and technology Indian Institutes of Technology Inventions and discoveries History Swords Traditional medicine v t e Members of the Commonwealth of Nations Sovereign states (members) Antigua and Barbuda Australia Bahamas Bangladesh Barbados Belize Botswana Brunei Cameroon Canada Cyprus Dominica Eswatini (Swaziland) Fiji Gabon Gambia Ghana Grenada Guyana India Jamaica Kenya Kiribati Lesotho Malawi Malaysia Maldives Malta Mauritius Mozambique Namibia Nauru New Zealand Nigeria Pakistan Papua New Guinea Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Solomon Islands South Africa Sri Lanka Tanzania Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tuvalu Uganda United Kingdom Vanuatu Zambia Associated states Cook Islands Niue Dependent territories Australia Ashmore and Cartier Islands Australian Antarctic Territory Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Coral Sea Islands Heard Island and McDonald Islands Norfolk Island New Zealand Ross Dependency Tokelau United Kingdom Akrotiri and Dhekelia Anguilla Bermuda British Antarctic Territory British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Cayman Islands Falkland Islands Gibraltar Guernsey Isle of Man Jersey Montserrat Pitcairn Islands Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Turks and Caicos Islands Source: Commonwealth Secretariat – Member Countries v t e South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) Agreements South Asian Free Trade Area Summits Dhaka 1985 Bangalore 1986 Kathmandu 1987 Islamabad 1988 Malé 1990 Colombo 1991 Dhaka 1993 New Delhi 1995 Malé 1997 Colombo 1998 Kathmandu 2002 Islamabad 2004 Dhaka 2005 New Delhi 2007 Colombo 2008 Thimphu 2010 Addu 2011 Kathmandu 2014 Islamabad 2016 (Cancelled) Members Afghanistan Bangladesh Bhutan India Maldives Nepal Pakistan Sri Lanka Observers Australia China European Union Iran Japan Mauritius Myanmar South Korea United States Guests South Africa Russia Specialised agencies SAARC Consortium on Open and Distance Learning SAARC Documentation Centre South Asia Co-operative Environment Programme Foundation of SAARC Writers and Literature SAARC Chamber of Commerce and Industry South Asian Federation of Accountants SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Fund Related Articles SAARC Secretary General SAARC Secretariat SAARC satellite South Asian University South Asian Games SAARC Literary Award SAARC Road SAARC Fountain v t e Group of Eight (G8) and Group of Eight + Five (G8+5) G8 members Canada France Germany Italy Japan Russia (suspended) United Kingdom United States Representative European Union G8+5 Brazil China India Mexico South Africa See also G6 G7 G7+1 G4 (Europe) G4 (UN) v t e G20 major economies African Union Argentina Australia Brazil Canada China European Union France Germany India Indonesia Italy Japan Mexico Russia Saudi Arabia South Africa South Korea Turkey United Kingdom United States v t e BRICS Membership Brazil Russia India China South Africa Egypt Ethiopia Iran United Arab Emirates Indonesia Summits Yekaterinburg 2009 Brasília 2010 Sanya 2011 New Delhi 2012 Durban 2013 Fortaleza 2014 Ufa 2015 Goa 2016 Xiamen 2017 Johannesburg 2018 Brasília 2019 Saint Petersburg 2020 New Delhi 2021 Beijing 2022 Johannesburg 2023 Kazan 2024 Rio de Janeiro 2025 Bilateral relations Brazil–China Brazil–India Brazil–Russia Brazil–South Africa China–India China–Russia China–South Africa India–Russia India–South Africa Russia–South Africa Leaders Lula Putin Modi Xi Ramaphosa Sisi Ahmed Pezeshkian Al Nahyan Prabowo Sports BRICS U-17 Football Cup 2016 Goa 2018 Johannesburg BRICS Games 2024 Kazan Athletics Badminton Gymnastics Related BRICS Contingent Reserve Arrangement BRICS Cable BRICS Universities League New Development Bank BRICS PAY v t e East Asia Summit (EAS) 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th 11th 12th 13th 14th 15th 16th 17th 18th 19th Australia Brunei Cambodia China India Indonesia Japan Laos Malaysia Myanmar New Zealand Philippines Russia Singapore South Korea Thailand United States Vietnam v t e Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summits Beijing 2012 Dushanbe 2014 Astana 2017 Samarkand 2022 Astana 2024 Islamabad 2024 Member states Belarus China India Iran Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Pakistan Russia Tajikistan Uzbekistan Observer states Mongolia Dialogue partners Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Cambodia Egypt Kuwait Maldives Myanmar Nepal Qatar Saudi Arabia Sri Lanka Turkey United Arab Emirates Guests ASEAN Commonwealth of Independent States Turkmenistan United Nations Applicants Algeria Bangladesh Iraq Israel Laos Syria See also Member states Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure Three Evils SCO Interbank Consortium Eurasian Land Bridge Working languages Chinese Russian v t e Countries and dependencies of Asia Sovereign states Afghanistan Armenia 2 Azerbaijan 1 Bahrain Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Cambodia China Cyprus 2 East Timor Egypt 1 Georgia 1 India Indonesia 1 Iran Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Kazakhstan 1 North Korea South Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Malaysia Maldives Mongolia Myanmar Nepal Oman Pakistan Philippines Qatar Russia 1 Saudi Arabia Singapore Sri Lanka Syria Tajikistan Thailand Turkey 1 Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen States with limited recognition Abkhazia 2 Northern Cyprus 2 Palestine South Ossetia 2 Taiwan Dependent territories Australia Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Greece Kastellorizo United Kingdom Akrotiri and Dhekelia 2 (Sovereign Base Areas) British Indian Ocean Territory ( British Overseas Territory ) Special administrative regions of China Hong Kong Macau 1 Spans the conventional boundary between Asia and another continent. 2 Considered European for cultural, political and historical reasons but is geographically in West Asia. Category Asia portal Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF FAST WorldCat National Germany United States France 2 3 BnF data 2 3 Japan Australia Czech Republic Spain Portugal Norway Chile Sweden Vatican Israel Geographic MusicBrainz area Academics CiNii Artists KulturNav People Trove UK Parliament Other IdRef Historical Dictionary of Switzerland NARA Encyclopedia of Modern Ukraine İslâm Ansiklopedisi 21°N 78°E ﻿ / ﻿ 21°N 78°E ﻿ / 21; 78 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=India&oldid=1279684803 " Categories : India BRICS nations Countries and territories where English is an official language Countries and territories where Hindi is an official language Countries in Asia Federal constitutional republics Former British colonies and protectorates in Asia G15 nations G20 members Member states of the Commonwealth of Nations Member states of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation Member states of the United Nations Republics in the Commonwealth of Nations South Asian countries States and territories established in 1947 Hidden categories: Pages using the Phonos extension Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Featured articles Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Wikipedia extended-confirmed-protected pages Use Indian English from September 2023 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Use dmy dates from September 2023 Articles containing Sanskrit-language text Articles containing Hindi-language text Pages using infobox country or infobox former country with the symbol caption or type parameters Pages with Hindustani IPA Pages including recorded pronunciations Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2017 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2010 Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2009 Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2012 Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata Pages using Sister project links with default search Coordinates on Wikidata Articles containing image maps Articles containing video clips This page was last edited on 9 March 2025, at 23:43 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents India 302 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Cyber_City_View.jpg
File:Cyber City View.jpg - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk File:Cyber City View.jpg Add languages Page contents not supported in other languages. File Talk English Read View on Commons Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View on Commons General What links here Upload file Printable version Page information Get shortened URL Download QR code In other projects Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia File File history File usage Global file usage Metadata Size of this preview: 800 × 389 pixels . Other resolutions: 320 × 156 pixels | 640 × 311 pixels | 1,024 × 498 pixels | 1,280 × 622 pixels | 4,128 × 2,006 pixels . Original file (4,128 × 2,006 pixels, file size: 2.3 MB, MIME type: image/jpeg ) This is a file from the Wikimedia Commons . Information from its description page there is shown below. Commons is a freely licensed media file repository. You can help . Summary Description Cyber City View.jpg English: Cyber City View, Gurgaon Date 13 September 2019, 13:20:31 Source Own work Author Tarun4u Licensing I, the copyright holder of this work, hereby publish it under the following license: This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 International license. You are free: to share – to copy, distribute and transmit the work to remix – to adapt the work Under the following conditions: attribution – You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use. share alike – If you remix, transform, or build upon the material, you must distribute your contributions under the same or compatible license as the original. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0 CC BY-SA 4.0 Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 true true Captions English DLF Cyber City in Gurugram, Haryana, India Hindi गुरुगराम में साइबर सिटी Items portrayed in this file depicts Corporate park École polytechnique creator some value Wikimedia username : Tarun4wiki author name string : Tarun4u URL : https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/user:Tarun4wiki copyright status copyrighted copyright license Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International source of file original creation by uploader inception 13 September 2019 exposure time 0.00052798310454065469 second f-number 1.9 focal length 3.6 millimetre ISO speed 40 media type image/jpeg instance of photograph checksum e7a3671a6ceb95b05ae6eb5ae002490fdde67edf determination method or standard : SHA-1 data size 2,411,474 byte height 2,006 pixel width 4,128 pixel File history Click on a date/time to view the file as it appeared at that time. Date/Time Thumbnail Dimensions User Comment current 17:59, 24 April 2020 4,128 × 2,006 (2.3 MB) Tarun4wiki Uploaded own work with UploadWizard File usage The following 7 pages use this file: Cyber City Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Haryana List of shopping streets and districts by city Northwest India Talk:India/Archive 49 User:Dineshswamiin/sandbox Global file usage The following other wikis use this file: Usage on bn.wikipedia.org হরিয়ানা Usage on en.wikivoyage.org Gurugram Usage on fi.wikipedia.org Gurgaon Usage on fr.wikipedia.org Gurgaon Usage on gu.wikipedia.org હરિયાણા Usage on hi.wikipedia.org हरियाणा Usage on incubator.wikimedia.org Wp/mag/हरियाणा Usage on ja.wikipedia.org グルグラム Usage on sat.wikipedia.org ᱦᱚᱨᱤᱭᱟᱬᱟ Usage on sd.wikipedia.org هريانا Usage on te.wikipedia.org హర్యానా గుర్‌గావ్ Usage on th.wikipedia.org คุรุคราม Usage on ur.wikipedia.org ہریانہ Metadata This file contains additional information, probably added from the digital camera or scanner used to create or digitize it. If the file has been modified from its original state, some details may not fully reflect the modified file. Camera model SM-J600G Camera manufacturer samsung ISO speed rating 40 F-number f/1.9 Exposure time 1/1,894 sec (0.00052798310454065) Lens focal length 3.6 mm Date and time of data generation 13:20, 13 September 2019 Width 4,128 px Height 2,006 px Software used J600GDXU4BSH2 File change date and time 10:06, 17 September 2019 Orientation Normal Y and C positioning Centered Horizontal resolution 72 dpi Vertical resolution 72 dpi Exposure Program Normal program Unique image ID Y13LLLA00NM Y13LLME00NA DateTimeDigitized subseconds 0738 DateTimeOriginal subseconds 0738 DateTime subseconds 0738 Sharpness Normal Flash Flash did not fire Saturation Normal Contrast Normal Metering mode Center weighted average Scene capture type Standard Focal length in 35 mm film 27 mm Maximum land aperture 1.85 APEX (f/1.9) Date and time of digitizing 13:20, 13 September 2019 Exposure bias 0 White balance Auto white balance APEX brightness 8.76 Exposure mode Auto exposure APEX aperture 1.85 Meaning of each component Y Cb Cr does not exist Color space sRGB Scene type A directly photographed image Shutter speed 10.89 Exif version 2.2 Supported Flashpix version 1 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Cyber_City_View.jpg " Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search File:Cyber City View.jpg Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gurugram
Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Geography Toggle Geography subsection 2.1 Topography 2.2 Ecology 2.3 Climate 3 Demographics Toggle Demographics subsection 3.1 Religion 4 Cityscape Toggle Cityscape subsection 4.1 Architecture 4.2 Neighbourhoods 4.3 Parks 5 Culture Toggle Culture subsection 5.1 Entertainment and performing arts 5.2 Languages and dialect 5.3 Sports 6 Economy 7 Law and government 8 Crime 9 Education 10 Transport Toggle Transport subsection 10.1 Roadways 10.2 Railways 10.2.1 Intercity rail 10.2.2 Delhi Metro 10.2.3 Rapid Metro 10.3 Airways 10.3.1 Airport 10.4 Transit systems 10.4.1 Public transit 11 Utilities 12 Issues Toggle Issues subsection 12.1 Abusive workculture 12.2 Flooding 13 See also 14 References 15 Further reading 16 External links Toggle the table of contents Gurgaon 62 languages العربية अवधी تۆرکجه বাংলা 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gú भोजपुरी Català Cebuano Čeština Deutsch Español Esperanto فارسی Français 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी বিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরী Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan Ladin Latviešu Magyar मैथिली Malagasy മലയാളം मराठी مصرى Bahasa Melayu Nederlands नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Norsk bokmål ଓଡ଼ିଆ ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی پښتو Polski Português Română Русский संस्कृतम् ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ Simple English Српски / srpski Suomi Svenska தமிழ் Татарча / tatarça తెలుగు ไทย Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt Winaray 吴语 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read View source View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read View source View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikivoyage Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°27′22″N 77°01′44″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.456°N 77.029°E ﻿ / 28.456; 77.029 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Gurugram ) City in Haryana, India For other uses, see Gurgaon (disambiguation) . Metropolis in India Gurgaon Metropolis Gurugram Gurgaon city skyline along with the Rapid Metro Kingdom of Dreams Gateway Towers DLF Galleria market 32nd Avenue DLF CyberCity Nickname(s): Millennium city The Cocktail Capital of India [ 1 ] Gurgaon Location of Gurgaon in Haryana Show map of Haryana Gurgaon Gurgaon (India) Show map of India Coordinates: 28°27′22″N 77°01′44″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.456°N 77.029°E ﻿ / 28.456; 77.029 Country India State Haryana District Gurgaon district Created 1979 Government • Type Municipal Corporation • Body Gurgaon Municipal Corporation [ 2 ] Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority • Mayor Madhu Azad • Municipal Commissioner Narhari Singh Bangar, IAS [ 3 ] Area [ 4 ] • Total 332.50 km 2 (128.38 sq mi) Elevation 217 m (711.9 ft) Population (2011) [ 5 ] [ 6 ] • Total 876,969 • Density 2,600/km 2 (6,800/sq mi) Languages • Official Hindi Time zone UTC+5:30 ( IST ) PIN 122xxx Area code 0124 Vehicle registration HR-26 HR-98 HR-55 (commercial) HDI (2017) 0.889 [ 7 ] very high Website gurugram .gov .in Sikanderpur, Gurgaon, India, April 2018 Gurgaon ( Hindi: [ɡʊɽɡãːw] ), officially named Gurugram ( [ɡʊɾʊɡɾaːm] ), is a tier-2 satellite city of Delhi and administrative headquarters of Gurgaon district , located in the northern Indian state of Haryana . [ 8 ] It is situated near the Delhi – Haryana border, about 30 kilometres (19 mi) southwest of the national capital New Delhi and 268 km (167 mi) south of Chandigarh , the state capital. [ 9 ] It is one of the major satellite cities of Delhi and is part of the National Capital Region of India . [ 10 ] As of 2011 [update] , Gurgaon had a population of 876,969. [ 4 ] [ 6 ] Gurgaon is India's second largest information technology hub, largest civil aviation hub, largest hospitality hub and second largest Management consulting hub. [ 11 ] [ 12 ] Gurgaon is famous in India for nightlife as it houses multiple high number of high-quality pubs , nightclubs , bars , liquor shops hence called The Cocktail Capital of India. [ 13 ] [ 14 ] Gurgaon is also home to one of India's largest medical tourism and luxury tourism industries. [ 15 ] Despite being India's 56th largest city in terms of population, Gurgaon is the 8th largest city in the country in terms of total wealth. [ 16 ] It serves as the headquarters of many of India's largest companies , is home to thousands of startup companies and has local offices for more than 250 Fortune 500 companies. [ 17 ] It accounts for almost 70% of the total annual economic investments in Haryana state, which has helped it become a leading hub for high-tech industry in northern India. [ 18 ] Gurgaon is categorised as very high on the Human Development Index , with an HDI of 0.889 (2017). [ 19 ] Gurgaon's economic growth started in the 1970s when Maruti Suzuki India Limited established a manufacturing plant and gathered pace after General Electric established its business outsourcing operations known as Genpact in the city in collaboration with real-estate firm DLF . [ 20 ] [ 21 ] New Gurgaon , Manesar and Sohna serve as adjoining manufacturing and upcoming real estate hubs for Gurgaon. Despite rapid economic and population growth, Gurgaon continues to battle socio-economic issues, such as high-income inequality and high air pollution. [ 22 ] [ 23 ] It also has a flood problem due to the limited drainage capacity. [ 24 ] Gurgaon is infamous for prostitution, erotic spas , sex tourism and high-end escorts in areas like MG Road and Sector 29. [ 25 ] [ 26 ] [ 27 ] [ 28 ] [ 29 ] History See also: History of Haryana , Badshahpur , and Jharsa The region of Gurgaon originally fell under the Kuru Kingdom . [ 30 ] Early people to inhabit the region were Hindus ruled over by the Ahir clan. [ 31 ] Yadu tribes were a part of this clan and today their descendants commonly hold the last name Yadav . In late 4th century BCE, the city was absorbed by the Maurya Empire as part of Chandragupta Maurya 's earliest expansions of his kingdom. [ 32 ] Gurgaon may be same as the Gudapura town mentioned in the 12th century text Prithviraja Vijaya . According to the text, Nagarjuna, a cousin of the Chahamana king Prithviraj Chauhan , rebelled against the king and captured the town. Prithviraj crushed the rebellion and recaptured the town. [ 33 ] [ 34 ] During the Mughal and initially during the British colonial era , Gurgaon was just a small village in Jharsa paragana of Delhi subah . Report of a Tour in Eastern Rajputana in 1882–83 (published in 1885) by Alexander Cunningham , the then Director-General of Archaeological Survey of India , he mentions a stone pillar at Gurgaon of a local feudal lord "Durgga Naga" with a 3-line inscription " Samvat 729 or 928, Vaisakh badi 4, Durgga Naga lokatari bhuta" dating back to 672 CE or 871 CE. Jharsa paragana passed to Begum Samru in 1776–77 and came under direct British rule in 1836 after her death when her territory was taken over by the British who established a civil lines at Jharsa and a cavalry cantonment at nearby Hiyadatpur. An 1882 land revenue settlement report records that the idol of Sitla Mata was brought to Gurgaon 400 years earlier (15th century). Begum Samru claimed the offering to Sitla Mata temple during the Chaitra month and the revenue from the offerings given to the deity for rest of the month was distributed among the prominent Jat zamindars of the area. [ 35 ] The Aliwardi mosque in Gurgaon dates back to the 18th century. In 1818, Bharawas district was disbanded and Gurgaon was made a new district. In 1821, the Bharaswas cantonment was also moved to Hidayatpur in Gurgaon. [ 36 ] "Aliwardi mosque" in Gurgaon, " Badshahpur baoli " (1905). [ 37 ] [ 38 ] and " Bhondsi " (16th to 17th century) were built during mughal and British era. [ 39 ] The "Church of the Epiphany" and "Kaman Serai" (Corrupted form of the "Command Serai" or Officer's Mess" ) was built by the Britishers in 1925 inside the civil lines. [ 39 ] Other British colonial era historic buildings The Gurgaon Club, a 3-room building surrounded by the lawn and currently run by the Zila Parishad , the erstwhile Coronation School—now renamed to the Government Boys' Senior Secondary School, one of the 13 school established in India in 1911 to commemorate the coronation of King George V . [ 40 ] During 1980s, the airstrip and hangar , air conditioned yoga ashram and TV studio were built on outskirts of the city by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi 's yoga mentor Dhirendra Brahmachari . [ 41 ] The former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar established his own ashram near this airstrip in 1983 on 600 acre of panchayat land, where another godman Chandraswami and notorious Saudi arms dealer Adnan Khashoggi used to visit him. [ 42 ] [ 43 ] On 12 April 2016, Chief Minister of Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar announced a proposal to officially rename the city Gurugram ( Sanskrit : गुरुग्राम, lit. village of the Guru ), subject to the approval of the Haryana cabinet and the Union Government . He argued that the new name would help to preserve the "rich heritage" of the city by emphasising its history and mythological association with Drona . [ 44 ] [ 45 ] [ 46 ] On 27 September 2016, he officially announced that the Union Government had approved the name change, and thus the city and district would henceforth be known as Gurugram, [ 47 ] though the old name "Gurgaon" still lingers in the colloquial usage. [ 48 ] Geography Gurgaon skyline at dusk Gurgaon is located in Gurgaon district in the Indian state of Haryana and is situated in the southeastern part of the state, and northern part of the country. The city is located on the border with Delhi with New Delhi to its northeast. The city has a total area of 232 square kilometres (90 sq mi). [ 4 ] [ 49 ] [ 50 ] Topography The average land elevation is 217 metres (712 ft) above sea level. [ 51 ] Ecology Sultanpur National Park is a Ramsar site , which is famous for migratory bird species which migrate to India due to seasonal changes Gurgaon lies on the Sahibi River , a tributary of Yamuna which originates from the Aravalli range in Rajasthan and flows through west and South Haryana into Delhi where it is also known as the Najafgarh drain . The paleochannel and the current course of the Sahibi river have series of biodiversity hotspots and Important Bird Area (IBA) wetlands and forests within Gurugam, including the Outfall Drain Number 6 (canalised portion in Haryana of Sahibi river), Outfall Drain Number 8 (canalised portion in Haryana of Dohan river which is a tributary of Sahibi river), Sarbashirpur wetland, Sultanpur National Park , Basai wetland , Najafgarh lake and Najafgarh drain bird sanctuary , Ghata lake, Badshahpur lake, Khandsa lake and The Lost lake of Gurgaon. [ 52 ] Other IBA wetlands along the Saibi river, outside Gurgaon district, are the Masani barrage wetland, Matanhail forest , Chhuchhakwas-Godhari , Khaparwas Wildlife Sanctuary , Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary , etc. All of these are home to endangered and migratory birds. Most of these largely remain unprotected. These are under extreme threat mainly from the colonisers and builders. Mangar Bani , a sacred grove and forest with wetlands between Gurgaon and Faridabad, is one of the last surviving natural forests in NCR is protected by Gurjars of nearby area. [ 53 ] Contiguous to Mangar bani are Gwal Pahari and Bandhwari forested area. All of these lie on the Southern Delhi Ridge of Aravalli range. Climate Under the Köppen climate classification , the climate of Gurgaon is an overlap between a monsoon-influenced humid subtropical climate ( Köppen Cwa ) and a hot semi-arid climate ( Köppen BSh ). [ 54 ] The city experiences four distinct seasons – spring (February–March), summer (April–August), autumn (October–November) and winter (December–January) – along with the monsoon season (June–September) setting in towards the latter half of the summer. Summers, from early April to September, are typically hot and humid, with an average daily June high temperature of 40 °C (104 °F). The season experiences heat indices easily breaking 43 °C (109 °F). Winters are cool and foggy with few sunny days. The Western Disturbance brings some rain in winters that further adds to the chill. Spring and autumn are mild and pleasant seasons with low humidity. The monsoon season usually starts in the first week of July and continues till August. Thunderstorms are not uncommon during the monsoon. The average annual rainfall is 648.6 millimetres (25.5 in). [ 55 ] The highest ever temperature recorded is 49.0 °C (120.2 °F) on 10 May 1966 and the lowest ever is −0.4 °C (31.3 °F) on 5 December 1966. On 15 May 2022 Gurgaon recorded a maximum temperature of 48.1 °C (118.6 °F), the hottest day in May in 56 years. Climate data for Gurgaon (1991–2020, extremes 1965–present) Month Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Year Record high °C (°F) 28.0 (82.4) 33.5 (92.3) 39.5 (103.1) 46.2 (115.2) 49.0 (120.2) 47.5 (117.5) 45.0 (113.0) 41.0 (105.8) 41.2 (106.2) 39.3 (102.7) 38.4 (101.1) 30.2 (86.4) 49.0 (120.2) Mean maximum °C (°F) 25.0 (77.0) 29.2 (84.6) 35.7 (96.3) 42.9 (109.2) 45.0 (113.0) 45.0 (113.0) 40.6 (105.1) 38.1 (100.6) 37.2 (99.0) 35.2 (95.4) 32.8 (91.0) 26.6 (79.9) 45.7 (114.3) Mean daily maximum °C (°F) 20.1 (68.2) 23.8 (74.8) 29.9 (85.8) 36.9 (98.4) 40.9 (105.6) 39.3 (102.7) 35.9 (96.6) 33.9 (93.0) 34.1 (93.4) 32.0 (89.6) 27.8 (82.0) 22.5 (72.5) 31.2 (88.2) Mean daily minimum °C (°F) 6.9 (44.4) 9.5 (49.1) 14.0 (57.2) 19.6 (67.3) 24.6 (76.3) 26.7 (80.1) 26.7 (80.1) 25.8 (78.4) 24.4 (75.9) 18.0 (64.4) 12.0 (53.6) 7.5 (45.5) 17.7 (63.9) Mean minimum °C (°F) 3.9 (39.0) 4.9 (40.8) 8.6 (47.5) 14.5 (58.1) 19.1 (66.4) 21.6 (70.9) 23.5 (74.3) 23.1 (73.6) 21.8 (71.2) 13.2 (55.8) 7.3 (45.1) 3.5 (38.3) 3.0 (37.4) Record low °C (°F) 0.0 (32.0) 0.9 (33.6) 3.7 (38.7) 9.2 (48.6) 14.8 (58.6) 19.1 (66.4) 21.0 (69.8) 21.2 (70.2) 13.9 (57.0) 9.8 (49.6) 2.6 (36.7) −0.4 (31.3) −0.4 (31.3) Average rainfall mm (inches) 13.5 (0.53) 16.9 (0.67) 3.4 (0.13) 8.2 (0.32) 22.7 (0.89) 79.2 (3.12) 135.5 (5.33) 211.4 (8.32) 120.8 (4.76) 15.9 (0.63) 10.7 (0.42) 9.9 (0.39) 648.6 (25.54) Average rainy days 1.2 1.2 0.5 0.6 1.7 4.3 7.6 8.5 5.5 1.3 1.0 0.8 34.2 Average relative humidity (%) (at 17:30 IST ) 54 45 37 28 31 40 63 69 59 45 47 55 48 Average dew point °C (°F) 8 (46) 9 (48) 11 (52) 11 (52) 14 (57) 20 (68) 24 (75) 25 (77) 23 (73) 16 (61) 11 (52) 8 (46) 15 (59) Average ultraviolet index 5 5 7 9 9 9 8 7 7 7 6 4 6.9 Source 1: India Meteorological Department [ 55 ] Time and Date (dewpoints, 1985-2015) [ 56 ] Source 2: Weather Atlas [ 57 ] Demographics The Gurgaon city area has an estimated population of 876,969, according to the 2011 Census of India . [ 4 ] Religion Religion in Gurgaon (2011) [ 58 ] Religion Percent Hinduism 91.88% Islam 4.57% Sikhism 1.60% Christianity 0.95% Jainism 0.79% Other or not stated 0.21% Hinduism is the most popular religion in Gurgaon, followed by Islam, and Sikhism. There are small numbers of Christian, and Buddhist followers. Gurgaon has adherents of Hinduism , Sikhism , Islam , Buddhism , Jainism , Christianity and the Baháʼí Faith , among others. There are several places of worship for major religions, including mandirs , gurdwaras , mosques and churches . Sheetla Mata Mandir , located at the heart of Gurgaon, [ 59 ] is a temple dedicated to the wife of Guru Dronacharya , Kripi. [ 60 ] The temple hosts fairs and people come to seek blessings of Sheetla Mata, earlier known as Kripi. Sai Ka Aangan temple, spread over an area of 36,000 square feet, is dedicated to Shirdi Sai Baba and has a life size idol of him. [ 61 ] Languages of Gurgaon (2011) [ 62 ] Hindi 74.18 (74.2%) Haryanvi 9.02 (9.02%) Punjabi 3.78 (3.78%) Bengali 3.59 (3.59%) Bhojpuri 1.95 (1.95%) Others 7.48 (7.48%) At the time of the 2011 Census of India , 74.18% of the population spoke Hindi , 9.02% Haryanvi , 3.78% Punjabi , 3.59% Bengali and 1.95% Bhojpuri as their first language. [ 62 ] Cityscape Architecture Cyber Green Building Gurgaon has architecturally noteworthy buildings in a wide range of styles and from distinct time periods. Gurgaon's skyline with its many skyscrapers is nationally recognised, and the city has been home to several tall buildings with modern planning. Gurgaon has an estimated 1,892 high-rises. [ 63 ] [ 64 ] Neighbourhoods Gateway Towers, Gurgaon Gurgaon is divided into 36 wards, with each ward further divided into blocks. The housing type in the city consists largely of attached housing, though many attached multi-dwelling units , including apartments , condominiums and high rise residential towers are getting popular. Parks Gurgaon has a complex park system, with various lands operated by the Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority. The key parks are Leisure Valley Park in Sector 29, which is over 15 hectares (36 acres); Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Botanical Garden in Sector 52; Navisha Park in Malibu Towne, Sector-47; Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Park in Sector 14, popularly known as HUDA Garden; Tau Devi Lal park in Sector 23; and Aravali Biodiversity Park on MG Road. [ 65 ] There are local parks in almost all sectors in Old Gurgaon. [ 66 ] Culture Entertainment and performing arts Kingdom of Dreams Notable performing art venues in the city include Epicentre in Sector 44 and Nautanki Mehal at the Kingdom of Dreams near IFFCO Chowk. Bollywood actor Rajkummar Rao was born in Gurgaon. [ 67 ] Languages and dialect The main language spoken in Gurgaon is Hindi , though a segment of the population understands and speaks English. The dialect used in Hindi is similar to that of Delhi, and is considered neutral, though the regional influences from the states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab adds an accent to the language. English is spoken with an Indian accent, with a primarily North Indian influence. Since Gurgaon has many international call centres , the employees are usually given formal training in neutral pronunciation in order to be understandable to native English speakers. Haryanvi and Punjabi are other popular languages spoken in the city. Sports The city has two major sports stadiums: Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 38, which has facilities for cricket , football , basketball and athletics as well as a sports hostel, and Nehru Stadium which is designed for football and athletics. Amity United FC is a tenant of Tau Devi Lal Stadium. Gurgaon district has nine golf courses and is described as the "heart of India's golfing country". [ 68 ] Joginder Rao , a domestic cricket player, was from Gurgaon. Economy A commercial area in the DLF Cyber City . Gurgaon has the third highest per-capita income in India and is the site of Indian offices for half of Fortune 500 companies. [ 69 ] The city also benefits from its close proximity to Delhi. Maruti Suzuki Private Limited was the first company that set up a manufacturing unit in the city in the 1970s, making cars. [ 20 ] Eventually, DLF Limited , a real estate company, acquired vast stretches of land in the city. The first major American brand to set up a unit in Gurgaon was General Electric in 1997. GE's setup in Gurgaon prompted other companies, both international and domestic, to follow suit [ 70 ] providing outsourcing solutions in software, IT, service and sales through delivery facilities and call centres. However, due to the lack of proper public transport and the inability of most of the employees to afford a personal vehicle, most of the call centres provide pooled-in cars to and from their offices. [ 70 ] Apart from business process outsourcing and IT sectors, the city is home to several other companies. Siemens Industry Software , in Gurgaon Business Park, made a portfolio of design software that was used by NASA to digitally design, simulate and assemble the vehicle [ clarification needed ] before any physical prototypes were built. [ 70 ] Various international companies, including Coca-Cola , Pepsi , BMW , Agilent Technologies , and Hyundai , have chosen Gurgaon as their Indian corporate headquarters; this continues to  in the 2020s, with Cargill and Nissan making the same choice. [ 70 ] [ 71 ] [ 72 ] Companies with head offices in the city include Air India . [ 73 ] IndiGo , [ 74 ] SpiceJet , [ 75 ] and Vistara . [ 76 ] Gurgaon is largest civilian aviation hub of India, with all major airlines such as Air India , AirAsia , IndiGo , SpiceJet etc. having their global headquarters in the city. All the major companies in the city depend on their own backup, given the fact that Gurgaon does not have a reliable power and water supply, public transport or utilities. [ citation needed ] OMC Power is a distributed energy company headquartered in Gurgaon. [ 77 ] Retail is an important industry in Gurgaon, with the presence of 26 shopping malls. [ 78 ] Law and government Gurgaon is governed by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, which follows a mayor-council system. [ 79 ] In 2017, the GMDA (Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority) was formed, which looks after the city's infrastructure. Crime As per the authorities, the following is the key crime data of Gurgaon for 2022: [ 80 ] Nature of crime Number of cases (2022) % change (as compared to 2021) Notes Homicide 88 80% cases solved and perpetrators arrested. Rape 187 -15% (Decline) Child sex abuse 214 -21% (decline) Molestation 214 -9% (decline) Robbery / loot 62 -2% (Decline) 88% cases solved. Burglary 353 -5% (decline) Snatching 216 +27% (rise) Majority of the cases solved. Tracing ratio improved from 46% to 73%. Vehicle theft 3,523 -2% (decline) Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act cases 162 Over 465 kg ganja, 1.8 kg sulpha drugs, 1.9 kg heroin & 25 gm MDMA seized. Gambling 381 Excise act cases 1,461 Over 63,558 bottles of imported liquor, 80,914 bottles of country-made liquor & 12,917 bottles of beer seized. Arms act cases 354 Challans ( Traffic tickets ) issued for traffic violations 7,33,933 Vehicles impounded under scrappage program 1,458 Diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years impounded. Proclaimed offenders arrested 800 +46% (rise) Bail jumpers held 357 +179% (rise) The police department in Gurgaon is headed by the Commissioner of Police - Gurgaon Police, which forms a part of the Haryana Police [ 81 ] and reports to the Haryana state government. Gurgaon Police has a separate traffic police department headquartered in sector 51. [ 82 ] Fire protection within the city limits is provided by Municipal Corporation of Gurugram through four fire stations, located in sector 29, sector 37, Udyog Vihar and Bhim Nagar. [ 83 ] In 2018, the first cyber police station was inaugurated in the city. As per the authorities, around 1,500 complaints related to cybercrime, including cyber fraud, online banking fraud, cheating through bank cards, social media complaints & data theft, are received every month. Due to a shortage of in-house cyber experts, the police largely outsource such cases to external organisations. [ 84 ] Education See also: List of educational institutions in Gurgaon The NorthCap University The city's public school system is managed by the government of Haryana and administered by Haryana Board of School Education . There are other schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education , Indian Certificate of Secondary Education and International Baccalaureate boards. Key schools in the city include Alpine Convent School , Ambience Public School , Amity International School, Blue Bells Model School , Delhi Public School , Gems International School , Gurugram Public School , Heritage Xperiential Learning School , K R Mangalam World School , Lancers International School , MatriKiran, Ryan International School , SCR Public School , Shalom Hills International School , The Shri Ram School and Vega Schools . National Brain Research Centre There are several universities and institutes, offering bachelor's, master's, doctorate and other programs, located in Gurgaon and the surrounding area, including Gurugram University , Sushant University , The NorthCap University , GD Goenka University , K.R. Mangalam University , Amity University , Management Development Institute , Great Lakes Institute of Management , Infinity Business School , BML Munjal University , Shree Guru Gobind Singh Tricentenary University . [ 85 ] Transport Roadways The major highway that links Gurgaon is National Highway 48 , the road that runs from Delhi to Mumbai. While the 27.7-kilometre (17.2 mi) Delhi-Gurgaon border-Kherki Dhaula stretch has been developed as the Delhi–Gurgaon Expressway , the rest is expanded to six lanes. [ 86 ] Railways Intercity rail Gurgaon railway station is operated by Northern Railway of Indian Railways . The rail station forms a part of the larger Indian Railways network. Along with that, Gurgaon has Tajnagar railway station, Dhankot railway station, Ghari Harsaru Railway Junction and Farrukhnagar Railway Station, Patli Railway Station. Under Modernisation of Railway Stations, Indian Railways is modernising four railway stations in Gurgaon. Gurgaon railway station, Ghari Harsaru Railway Junction and Farrukhnagar Railway Station will be developed and modernised with modern amenities and international facilities. Delhi Metro There are five stations served by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. located on the Yellow Line , which are Millennium City Centre , IFFCO Chowk , MG Road , Sikanderpur and Guru Droncharya . There are plans to extend metro coverage in future. [ 87 ] Rapid Metro The Rapid Metro has eleven stations in Gurgaon, with an interchange with Yellow Line of Delhi Metro at Sikanderpur metro station . The Rapid Metro became operational in November 2013 and currently covers a distance of 11.7 kilometres (7.3 mi). [ 88 ] One more phase of the project is in the pipeline and would take the total number of subway stations in the city to 16. An estimated 33,000 people ride the Rapid Metro every day, which provides an exclusive elevated transit service with three coach trains that run in a loop. [ 89 ] Airways Airport Gurgaon is served by Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport , which is located just outside of Gurgaon city limits near National Highway 8. [ 90 ] Transit systems Public transit In November 2013, Gurgaon launched an Ciclovia -inspired initiative known as Raahgiri Day —in which a corridor of streets is closed to motor vehicle traffic on Sunday mornings to encourage the use of non-motorized transport and participation in outdoor leisure activities. Gurgaon was the first city in India to implement such a program, followed by New Delhi, and later Noida. [ 91 ] [ 92 ] [ 93 ] Gurgaon is also expected to get India's first pod taxis . [ 94 ] Toll gate of the Delhi Gurgaon Expressway The Gurgaon Rapid Metro serves the city of Gurgaon. Millennium City Centre metro station on the Yellow Line of Delhi Metro Haryana Roadways operates buses on intercity routes in the city. Utilities Electricity in Gurgaon is provided by the government-owned Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam . Gurgaon has a power consumer base of 360,000 with an average power load of 700-800 MW. [ 95 ] There are frequent power outages in the city, especially during the peak consumption season of summer. Apart from the power deficit, the equipment used by the power department like transformers, panels and transmission lines are either old or overburdened. [ 96 ] Issues Abusive workculture Gurgaon is infamous for its toxic workculture and abusive work culture, even compared to other cities such as Bangalore , Pune and Navi Mumbai where workculture is far better. [ 97 ] Flooding Gurgaon is notorious for its urban floods every monsoon. [ 98 ] The areas on NH-8 around Hero Honda Chowk, Basai, Dhankot, sector 37 etc. see massive urban floods and headlines grabbing traffic jams reported widely in news media. A recent research report puts the blame on the broken natural water body linkage and obstructions in the flow in the city due to frantic construction during the last decades. [ 52 ] The HUDA master drainage lines get choked or burst at the seams. Disruptions in the hydrological flow of natural drains and limited drainage capacity are all primary reasons for the floods. [ 24 ] Gurgaon's Ghata Jheel, Badshahpur Jheel, Khandsa Talab were linked to Najafgarh drain which links to Yamuna river , via natural water channels and drains. [ 52 ] As per the ground reports and research, the three natural water bodies are struggling for their existence with encroachments on their lands and natural channels. Agencies responsible have tried to create artificial water bodies to compensate, but the efforts fail due to unpredictable rain and water flow patterns leading to deployment of water pumps to fight the situation. [ 99 ] In 2012 Punjab & Haryana High court banned ground water usage for construction activity, [ 100 ] and NGT has recently reprimanded authorities for drain concretisation. [ 101 ] See also K D Singh Foundation National Capital Region New Gurgaon Largest Indian cities by GDP References ^ Menon, Smitha (29 July 2023). "The cocktail capital of India" . Mint . Retrieved 6 January 2025 . ^ "Municipal Corporation, Gurugram" . www.mcg.gov.in . Archived from the original on 8 March 2022 . Retrieved 17 April 2022 . ^ " 'Cleanliness my top priority': Narhari Singh Bangar takes charge as Municipal Commissioner of Gurgaon" . Indian Express . 10 October 2024 . Retrieved 10 October 2024 . ^ a b c d "Demography Gurgaon" . Archived from the original on 15 April 2021 . Retrieved 27 March 2021 . ^ "Gurgaon City" . Archived from the original on 1 January 2022 . Retrieved 22 November 2020 . ^ a b "Cities having population 1 lakh and above, Census 2011" (PDF) . censusindia.gov.in . Archived (PDF) from the original on 23 July 2013 . Retrieved 5 July 2015 . ^ "Government of Haryana– District Database" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 September 2019 . Retrieved 30 September 2019 . ^ "Municipal Corporation Gurugram | Gurugram | India" . Archived from the original on 15 March 2023 . Retrieved 15 March 2023 . ^ "Gurgaon to New Delhi Distance, Duration, Driving Direction by Road, Trains, Bus / Car at MakeMyTrip Route Planner" . www.makemytrip.com . Archived from the original on 6 November 2018 . Retrieved 6 November 2018 . ^ "How a Small Experiment in Delhi's Suburbs Sparked a National Car-Free Movement —" . 5 July 2018. Archived from the original on 6 November 2018 . Retrieved 6 November 2018 . ^ "Gurugram among top 5 IT hubs in Asia Pacific" . Hindustan Times . 28 May 2019. Archived from the original on 24 August 2019 . Retrieved 28 May 2019 . ^ Julka, Harsimran (30 September 2011). "IT firms looking beyond Gurgaon, Noida, Greater Noida to other cities in north India" . The Economic Times . ET Bureau. Archived from the original on 5 November 2013 . Retrieved 2 October 2013 . ^ Menon, Smitha (28 July 2023). "The cocktail capital of India | Mint" . mint . ^ "Thriving nightlife can attract tourists in Gurgaon" . 7 September 2015. ^ "Medical tourism companies turn to telemedicine in wake of Covid-19" . Hindustan Times . 16 May 2020. Archived from the original on 22 May 2020 . Retrieved 16 May 2020 . ^ "Mumbai richest Indian city with total wealth of $820 billion: report" . LiveMint . 26 February 2017. Archived from the original on 26 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Jat stir shakes India Inc" . Business Standard India . 20 February 2016. Archived from the original on 22 February 2016 . Retrieved 22 February 2016 . ^ "Gurgaon becomes Haryana's golden goose" . The Hindu . 9 October 2015. Archived from the original on 25 December 2019 . Retrieved 9 October 2015 . ^ "Government of Haryana - district wise HDI" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 September 2019 . Retrieved 30 September 2019 . ^ a b Kumar, K.P. Narayana. "Gurgaon: How not to Build a City" . Forbesindia.com. Archived from the original on 28 September 2013 . Retrieved 2 October 2013 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . 9 June 2011. Archived from the original on 26 May 2015 . Retrieved 9 June 2011 . ^ "7 out of top 10 most polluted cities are in India; Gurgaon the worst: Study" . The Asian Age . 5 March 2019. Archived from the original on 5 March 2019 . Retrieved 5 March 2019 . ^ "Inside the most polluted city in the world" . BBC Reel . Archived from the original on 21 May 2019 . Retrieved 21 May 2019 . ^ a b "Five reasons why Gurugram gets flooded every time it rains" . Hindustan Times . 20 August 2020. Archived from the original on 17 September 2021 . Retrieved 17 September 2021 . ^ "MG Road sex racket bust: Gurgaon residents seek action against pubs" . 23 July 2018. ^ "Gurugram's nightlife & crime breeders" . ^ "10 clubs on Gurugram's MG Road face closure over 'sex trade' allegations" . Hindustan Times . 30 July 2018. ^ " 'Entry escort' is a lucrative job" . The Times of India . 30 June 2013. ^ "Spas, night clubs offering sexual services turning Gurgaon into Delhi's Bangkok" . 20 September 2015. ^ The History of India . The Rosen Publishing Group, Inc, 2010. 15 August 2010. p. 63. ISBN 978-1615301225 . ^ "History | Gurugram" . gurugram.gov.in . Archived from the original on 23 April 2019 . Retrieved 14 September 2018 . ^ Constance Jones; James D. Ryan (2006). Encyclopedia of Hinduism Archived 23 March 2017 at the Wayback Machine . Infobase Publishing. p. xxviii. ISBN 978-0-8160-7564-5 . ^ R. B. Singh (1964). History of the Chāhamānas . N. Kishore. p. 163. OCLC 11038728 . Archived from the original on 23 March 2017 . Retrieved 22 February 2019 . ^ Dasharatha Sharma (1966). Rajasthan Through the Ages: From the earliest times to 1316 A.D . Rajasthan State Archives. p. 290. ^ Gurugram plan a misdirected govt move from history to myth Archived 22 January 2019 at the Wayback Machine , Times of India. ^ Yashpal Gulia, 2012, Heritage of Haryana. ^ Will history be buried for a road? A Gurgaon village waits Archived 1 February 2019 at the Wayback Machine , Indian Express , 18 January 2018. ^ Intach writes to state, seeks preservation of 100-year-old stepwell Archived 31 January 2018 at the Wayback Machine , Hindustan Times , 20 January 2018. ^ a b Gurugram heritage Archived 1 February 2019 at the Wayback Machine , fridaygurgaon.com. ^ Architectural remnants of the Raj Archived 3 October 2019 at the Wayback Machine , Hindustan Times, 2 September 2019. ^ 1990, "The Illustrated Weekly of India." , The Times Group , Volume 111, Issues 13-25, p. 35. ^ 1996, "India Today" , - Volume 21, Issues 7-12, p. 122. ^ "Creating a stir." Archived 23 September 2017 at the Wayback Machine , India Today , 28 February 1991. ^ "Gurgaon is now 'Gurugram', Mewat renamed Nuh: Haryana government" . The Indian Express . 12 April 2016. Archived from the original on 14 April 2016 . Retrieved 12 April 2016 . ^ "Welcome to the new office of Gurugram police commissioner" . Hindustan Times . 2 May 2016. Archived from the original on 5 May 2016 . Retrieved 5 May 2016 . ^ "Gurgaon: The city whose middle name is paradox" . The Times of India . 28 June 2016. Archived from the original on 1 July 2016 . Retrieved 12 July 2016 . ^ "Good morning, Gurugram. The name's official" . The Times of India . 28 September 2016. Archived from the original on 1 October 2016 . Retrieved 3 December 2016 . ^ "A year after renaming, 'Gurgaon' still lives on" . The Times of India . Archived from the original on 13 November 2017 . Retrieved 10 November 2017 . ^ "20 more villages to come under corporation limits" . The Times of India . 15 June 2018. Archived from the original on 25 April 2021 . Retrieved 22 November 2020 . ^ "Demographics" . Municipal Corporation, Gurgaon. Archived from the original on 11 October 2013. ^ "GGN/Gurgaon(3)" . India Rail Info. Archived from the original on 21 February 2014 . Retrieved 2 October 2013 . ^ a b c "Why Gurgaon Floods, a report on watershed management and imminent dangers the city faces" . Why Gurgaon Floods, a report on watershed management and imminent dangers the city faces. (in Hindi). 11 July 2016. Archived from the original on 16 February 2017 . Retrieved 16 February 2017 . ^ "News" . Archived from the original on 4 March 2016 . Retrieved 29 May 2014 . ^ "Gurgaon Climate By Month | A Year-Round Guide" . World Weather & Climate Information . Retrieved 19 April 2024 . ^ a b "CLIMATOLOGICAL TABLES OF OBSERVATORIES IN INDIA 1991-2020" (PDF) . GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MINISTRY OF EARTH SCIENCES INDIA METEOROLOGICAL DEPARTMENT . Retrieved 18 April 2024 . ^ "Climate & Weather Averages in Gurgaon, Haryana, India" . Time and Date. Archived from the original on 29 August 2022 . Retrieved 29 August 2022 . ^ "Gurgaon, India - Climate and monthly weather forecast" . Weather Atlas. Archived from the original on 12 July 2022 . Retrieved 12 July 2022 . ^ "Table C-01 Population by Religion: Haryana" . censusindia.gov.in . Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India . ^ "Sheetla Mata Mandir, Gurgaon" . Trek.zone . Trekzone. Archived from the original on 5 March 2023 . Retrieved 5 March 2023 . ^ "Sheetla Mata Mandir Gurgaon" . sheetlamatagurgaon.com . Archived from the original on 25 February 2016 . Retrieved 1 March 2016 . ^ "Sai Ka Angan" . saikaaangan.com/ . Sai Ka Angan. Archived from the original on 30 May 2023 . Retrieved 5 March 2023 . ^ a b "Table C-16 Population by Mother Tongue: Haryana" . Census of India . Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India . . ^ "Gurgaon High Rises" . Emporis . Archived from the original on 21 March 2015. ^ "In Gurgaon, residential high-rises most at risk" . 17 April 2013. Archived from the original on 23 November 2018 . Retrieved 23 November 2018 . ^ "Turning the city green, a million trees at a time" . Hindustan Times . 9 March 2019. Archived from the original on 1 August 2020 . Retrieved 18 April 2020 . ^ "How green was Gurgaon's parks" . The Times of India . TNN. 30 December 2011. Archived from the original on 29 October 2013 . Retrieved 2 October 2013 . ^ Mathur, Abhimanyu (25 November 2019). "Rajkummar Rao: I was inspired by a Haryana bus conductor for role in 'Stree' " . The Times of India . ETimes. Archived from the original on 5 March 2023 . Retrieved 5 March 2023 . ^ Singh, Prabhdev. "Golf courses in Gurgaon" . HT Media. Live Mint. Archived from the original on 15 May 2015 . Retrieved 3 May 2015 . ^ Kumar, Ashok (9 January 2022). "Millennium city losing its sheen as investment destination over growing vigilantism" . The Hindu . ISSN 0971-751X . Retrieved 12 September 2024 . ^ a b c d Kannan, Shilpa (2 October 2013). "Gurgaon: From fields to global tech hub" . BBC News . Archived from the original on 7 October 2013 . Retrieved 4 October 2013 . ^ Bureau, BL Chennai (3 August 2022). "Cargill opens new headquarters at Gurugram" . www.thehindubusinessline.com . Archived from the original on 23 April 2023 . Retrieved 23 April 2023 . {{ cite web }} : |last= has generic name ( help ) ^ Desk, HT Auto (30 May 2022). "Nissan Motor India now has its new headquarter in Gurugram" . HT Auto . Archived from the original on 23 April 2023 . Retrieved 23 April 2023 . {{ cite web }} : |last= has generic name ( help ) ^ "Corporate Information" . Air India . Retrieved 30 July 2024 . Registered Office Address: Block-4, Vatika One on One, Sector-16, NH-48 Industrial Estate, Gurugram HR 122007 INDIA ^ "Contact Us" . IndiGo . Retrieved 30 July 2024 . Third floor, Emaar Capital Tower 2, Mehrauli - Gurgaon Road, Gurugram, Haryana – 122002 ^ "Contact Us" . SpiceJet . Retrieved 30 July 2024 . [bottom of the page] Registered Office: SpiceJet Ltd, 319, Udyog Vihar, Phase IV, Gurgaon, Haryana - 122016 ^ "Contact Us" . Vistara . Retrieved 30 July 2024 . Intellion Edge, Tower A, 9th and 10th Floor,South Peripheral Road, Sector – 72, Gurugram, Haryana - 122101 ^ Guay, Justin (23 October 2014). "Millions in New Investment Cap Record Year for Beyond the Grid Solar Markets" . HuffPost . Retrieved 28 September 2024 . ^ "Gurgaon as IT outsourcing hub" . Amit Arun and Associates. Archived from the original on 10 January 2014 . Retrieved 5 October 2013 . ^ Joseph, Joel (22 June 2011). "Gurgaon gets first mayor after month's wait" . The Times of India . TNN. Archived from the original on 17 December 2013 . Retrieved 5 October 2013 . ^ "Gurgaon in crime: The year that was" . No. New Delhi. The Indian Express (P) Ltd. Express News Service. 31 December 2022. Archived from the original on 12 March 2023 . Retrieved 12 March 2023 . ^ "Gurgaon Police" . Gurgaon Police, Govt. of Haryana. Archived from the original on 29 October 2013 . Retrieved 24 October 2013 . ^ "Gurgaon police" . Gurgaon Police, Govt. of Haryana. Archived from the original on 22 October 2013 . Retrieved 24 October 2013 . ^ "Gurgaon's fourth fire station opens in Udyog Vihar" . The Times of India . TNN. 16 April 2012. Archived from the original on 29 October 2013 . Retrieved 24 October 2013 . ^ Dhankhar, Leena (17 February 2023). "Gurugram police to use volunteer cyber experts to probe fraud cases" . No. New Delhi. Hindustan Times. Hindustan Times. Archived from the original on 11 March 2023 . Retrieved 11 March 2023 . ^ "Universities & Colleges" . University Grants Commission. Archived from the original on 2 August 2013 . Retrieved 11 October 2013 . ^ Dash, Dipak Kumar (7 December 2012). "NH48 stretch on Delhi-Gurgaon border is India's deadliest road" . The Times of India . TNN. Archived from the original on 2 March 2013 . Retrieved 11 October 2013 . ^ "Gurugram Metro Rail project: Cost, total length, stations, and other details" . The Economic Times . 16 February 2024. ISSN 0013-0389 . Retrieved 17 September 2024 . ^ Joseph, Joel (13 November 2013). "From tomorrow, Gurgaon will finally have its Rapid Metro" . The Times of India . TNN. Archived from the original on 12 November 2013 . Retrieved 13 November 2013 . ^ ASHOK, SOWMIYA (16 June 2014). "Are Gurgaon residents game for a smooth ride on the Rapid Metro?" . The Hindu . Archived from the original on 20 June 2014 . Retrieved 18 June 2014 . ^ Behl, Abhishek (24 March 2017). "Coming soon: A tunnel to connect Dwarka expressway with Delhi airport" . Hindustan Times . Retrieved 12 September 2024 . ^ "New area in Gurgaon to have 'Raahgiri Day' " . Business Standard . IANS. 27 February 2014. Archived from the original on 17 March 2014 . Retrieved 17 March 2014 . ^ fwire (27 February 2014). "New area in Gurgaon to have 'Raahgiri Day' " . Firstpost. IANS. Archived from the original on 24 September 2015 . Retrieved 28 November 2014 . ^ "Raahgiri: Less honking, more bonding — How Gurgaon showed the way" . The Times of India . 19 March 2016. Archived from the original on 22 March 2016 . Retrieved 15 April 2016 . ^ "India's First Pod Taxis Are Coming Up In Gurgaon And The Rs 850 Crore Project Begins Next Month" . Archived from the original on 20 December 2016 . Retrieved 12 December 2016 . ^ "Essar withdraws application for distribution licence in Gurgaon" . PTI. 22 October 2013. Archived from the original on 26 October 2013 . Retrieved 25 October 2013 . ^ "Night-long outage in Old Gurgaon as transformer trips on demand" . The Times of India . TNN. 24 May 2014. Archived from the original on 3 June 2014 . Retrieved 10 June 2014 . ^ Behl, Abhishek (23 December 2015). "Workplace harassment in Gurgaon massively underreported: Experts" . Hindustant Times . Retrieved 1 February 2025 . ^ "Traffic nightmare in Gurgaon; waterlogging on NH8 hits Delhi-Jaipur route, schools shut" . Zee News . 29 July 2016. Archived from the original on 16 February 2017 . Retrieved 16 February 2017 . ^ Bagish Jha (30 March 2016). "Huda to speed up construction of additional discharge drain under service road of NH-8 | Gurgaon News - Times of India" . The Times of India . Archived from the original on 17 September 2021 . Retrieved 17 September 2021 . ^ "Gurgaon builders left high and dry" . Archived from the original on 16 February 2017 . Retrieved 16 February 2017 . ^ "NGT seeks report on drawbacks and impact of concretization of natural drains" . Hindustan Times . 1 February 2017. Archived from the original on 16 February 2017 . Retrieved 16 February 2017 . Further reading Basi, J.K. Tina (2009), Women, Identity and India's Call Centre Industry , Oxford: Routledge, ISBN 978-0-203-88379-2 , retrieved 12 November 2013 Gururani, Shiva (1 March 2013), "Flexible Planning: The Making of India's 'Millennium City', Gurgaon" , in Anne M. Rademacher (ed.), Ecologies of Urbanism in India: Metropolitan Civility and Sustainability , K. Sivaramakrshnan, Hong Kong University Press, pp. 119–, ISBN 978-988-8139-77-4 Narain, Vishal (2009), "Growing city, shrinking hinterland: land acquisition, transition and conflict in peri-urban Gurgaon, India", Environment and Urbanization , 21 (2): 501– 512, Bibcode : 2009EnUrb..21..501N , doi : 10.1177/0956247809339660 Pagnamenta, Robin (6 July 2012), "Indians riot over water shortages and power cuts" , The Times , London, archived from the original on 19 December 2013 , retrieved 12 November 2013 Rich, Nathan (2013), "Globally integrated/locally fractured: the extraordinary development of Gurgaon, India" , in Peggy Deamer (ed.), Architecture and Capitalism: 1845 to the Present , London: Routledge, pp. 172– 188, ISBN 978-1-135-04954-6 , retrieved 12 November 2013 Yardley, Jim (6 September 2011), "In Gurgaon, India, Dynamism Wrestles With Dysfunction" , The New York Times , archived from the original on 17 June 2013 , retrieved 12 November 2013 External links "Gurgaon: Model City and Cautionary Tale, Slide Show" , The New York Times , 8 June 2011 , retrieved 12 November 2013 Teng, Poh Si (8 June 2011), "India Rising, Off-the-Grid: Video" , The New York Times , retrieved 12 November 2013 Gurgaon at Wikipedia's sister projects : Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Commons Travel guides from Wikivoyage v t e State of Haryana Capital : Chandigarh Topics Divisions of Haryana Outline History Tourism Geography Politics Government Governors Economy Sports Districts and divisions Ambala division Ambala Kurukshetra Panchkula Yamunanagar Faridabad division Faridabad Nuh Palwal Gurgaon division Gurgaon Mahendragarh Rewari Hisar division Fatehabad Hisar Jind Sirsa Karnal division Kaithal Karnal Panipat Rohtak division Bhiwani Charkhi Dadri Jhajjar Rohtak Sonipat Major cities Faridabad Gurgaon Panipat Yamunanagar Rohtak Hisar Karnal Sonipat Panchkula Bhiwani Sirsa Bahadurgarh Jind Kurukshetra Kaithal Rewari Palwal Charkhi Dadri Culture Haryanvi culture Cinema List of films , Chandrawal , Jagat Jakhar ) Music Folk dance Saang ) Haryanvi language Ahirwati Bagri Braj Bhasha Bangru Deshwali Khadar Loarki Mewati Pahari ) Haryanvi people Economy Power stations and power organisations Places of interest Sarasvati civilization (Indus Valley Civilisation) Adi Badri Balu, Kaithal Banawali Bhirrana Farmana Jognakhera Kanwari Kunal Lohari Ragho Mitathal Rakhigarhi Siswal Sothi Archaeological National monuments State monuments Baoli (Stepwells)s Kaithal ( Bhai ki Baoli ) Fatehabad ( Rania,_Sirsa#History"Rania ) Gurgaon ( Akhara Baoli , Badshahpur Baoli , Dhumaspur Baoli ) Maham in Rohtak ( Choron ki Baoli ) Narnaul ( Alijaan ki Bawdi ) Buddhist and Hindu sites Buddhist mounds ( Agroha Mound , Sugh Ancient Mound ) Buddhist stupas ([Adi Badri, Haryana Haveli Nangal Sirohi Hemu Ki Haveli in Rewari Noor Mahal in Karnal Gurugram: (Sikanderpur, Mohammadpur Jharsa, 12 Biswa haveli in Gurgaon gaon, Mahalwala haveli in 8 Biswa of Gurgaon gaon) Forts Asigarh Fort (Hansi) Badhshapur Fort Buria Fort Chhachhrauli Fort Dhosi Hill Fort Fatehabad Fort Farrukhnagar Fort Hisar-e-Firoza Fort Kotla Indor Fort Jind Fort Kaithal Fort Gajpat Singh Fort at Karnal Loharu Fort Madhogarh Fort Mahendragarh Fort Meham Fort Nahar Singh Fort at Ballabhgargh Pinjore Fort Raipur Rani Fort Fort of King Saras of Sirsa Tosham Hill Fort Hills Dhosi Hill near Narnaul Kotla Hill in Mewat Indor Hill in Mewat Madhogarh Hill near Mahendragarh Mahendragarh Hill Morni Hills in Yamunanagar Tosham Hill in Bhiwani Caves Chyvan Rishi Cave at Dhosi Hill Tosham Hill Caverns Nar Narayan Cave in Yamunanagar Historical Bhima Devi Temple Complex at Pinjore Dhosi Hill Farrukhnagar Kalayat Ancient Bricks Temple Complex Mughal Bridge at Kernal Harsh ka Tilla at Kurukshetra Nahar Singh Mahal Narnaul Pataudi Palace Sthaneshwar Mahadev Temple Surajkund Tomb of Saikh Taiyab at Kaithal Tosham rock inscription Yadavindra Gardens State Protected Monuments Monuments of National Importance Protected areas Abubshahar Wildlife Sanctuary Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary Bir Shikargah Wildlife Sanctuary Chhilchhila Wildlife Sanctuary Kalesar National Park Khaparwas Wildlife Sanctuary Khol Hi-Raitan Wildlife Sanctuary Morni Nahar Wildlife Sanctuary Saraswati Wildlife Sanctuary Sohna Sultanpur Lake Bird Sanctuary Endangered wildlife breeding Chinkara Breeding Centre Kairu, Bhiwani Crocodile Breeding Centre, Kurukshetra Deer Park, Hisar Kalesar Elephant Rehabilitation Centre Pheasant Breeding Centre, Morni Pheasant Breeding Centre, Berwala Peacock & Chinkara Breeding Centre, Jhabua Sparrow Conservation Centre, Pinjore Vulture and Sparrow Conservation and Breeding Centre, Pinjore Zoos Bhiwani Zoo Hisar Deer Park Rohtak Zoo Pipli Zoo Herbal parks Shatavar Vatika Herbal Park, Hisar Ch. Surender Singh Memorial Herbal Park, Tosham Ch. Surender Singh Memorial Herbal Park, Kairu Ch. Devi Lal Herbal Nature Park Lakes Badkhal Lake Blue Bird Lake at Hisar Damdama Lake Karna Lake Tilyar Lake at Rohtak Dams Anangpur Dam Hathni Kund Barrage Kaushalya Dam Masani barrage Ottu barrage Palla barrage Pathrala barrage Tajewala Barrage Rivers Chautang Ghaggar-Hakra River Markanda River Najafgarh_drain Sahibi River Sarasvati River Yamuna Religious Adi Badri, Haryana Sarsvati udgam sthal Agroha Dham Baba Thakur Banbhori Devi Brahma Sarovar Bhuteshwar Temple Jayanti Devi Temple Jyotisar Kartikeya Temple Markandeshwar Mata Mansa Devi Mandir Nada Sahib Naugaja Peer Pindara Temple Sannihit Sarovar Sita Mai Temple Sthaneshwar Mahadev Temple Sheetla Mata Mandir Gurgaon St. Thomas' Church at Hisar Offices High Court Legislative Assembly Raj Bhavan Public places Kingdom of Dreams Mall of India The Oberoi Extreme corners Easternmost point: Kalesar village Yamuna riverbank in Yamunanagar district Westernmost point: Chautala – Sangari border road crossing in Sirsa district Southernmost point: Kol Gaon hill in Ferozepur Jhirka tehsil of Gurgaon district Northernmost point: Khokhra village riverbank north of Chandigarh–Baddi river bridge in Panchkula district Highest and lowest Highest point: Karoh Peak in Sivalik Hills of Panchkula district Lowest natural surface elevation point: Deepest underground cave: Coldest avg temp: Karoh Peak in Sivalik Hills of Panchkula district Hottest avg temp: Hisar Wettest avg rainfall: Morni hills in Sivalik Hills of Panchkula district Driest avg rainfall: Bhiwani Oldest Oldest archaeological site: Rakhigarhi 4700 BC or 6700 years old Indus Valley Civilisation in Hisar district Oldest archaeological mine site: Kaliyana hill Indus Valley Civilisation stone mine (3000 BC or 5000 years old) west of Charkhi Dadri Government and politics Elections Elections in Haryana 1991 1996 1998 1999 2004 2009 2014 2019 Chief ministers Banarsi Das Gupta Rao Birender Singh Bansi Lal Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Bhajan Lal Devi Lal Om Prakash Chautala Hukam Singh Bhupinder Singh Hooda Manohar Lal Khattar Governors Dharma Vira Birendra Narayan Chakraborty Ranjit Singh Narula Jaisukhlal Hathi Harcharan Singh Brar Surjit Singh Sandhawalia Ganpatrao Devji Tapase Saiyid Muzaffar Husain Burney Hari Anand Barari Dhanik Lal Mandal Mahaveer Prasad Babu Parmanand Om Prakash Verma Akhlaqur Rahman Kidwai Jagannath Pahadia Kaptan Singh Solanki State agencies Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Debt Conciliation Board Doordarshan Haryana Foreign Investment and NRI Cell Forests Department, Haryana Department of Economic and Statistical Analysis, Haryana Department of Environment, Haryana Department of Excise & Taxation, Haryana Department of Finance, Haryana Department of Industries & Commerce, Haryana Department of Industrial Training & Vocational Education, Haryana Department of Institutional Finance & Credit Control, Haryana Department of Labour and Employment (Haryana) Department of Land records & Consolidation, Haryana Department of Revenue and Disaster Management, Haryana Department of Rehabilitation, Haryana Department of Higher Education (Haryana) Department of School Education, Haryana Department of Elementary Education, Haryana Haryana Board of School Education Haryana Civil Medical Services Haryana Environment Protection Council Haryana Land Record Information System Haryana Power Generation Corporation Haryana Police Haryana Roadways Haryana Seeds Development Corporation Haryana State Directorate of Archaeology & Museums Haryana State Legal Services Authority, Haryana Haryana Tourism Corporation Haryana Urban Development Authority Haryana Waqf Board State Counselling Board, Haryana Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Sports Venues Chaudhary Bansi Lal Cricket Stadium Nahar Singh Stadium Tau Devi Lal Stadium Sector 16 Stadium Mahabir Stadium Associations Haryana Cricket Association Teams Haryana cricket team Haryana football team Bhiwani Boxing Club Portal:India Category: Haryana Wikiproject: Haryana Authority control databases International VIAF WorldCat National Germany United States Czech Republic Israel Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gurgaon&oldid=1277103280 " Categories : Gurgaon Cities and towns in Gurgaon district High-technology business districts in India Satellite Cities in India Medical tourism Haryana Haryana-related lists Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Webarchive template wayback links CS1 Hindi-language sources (hi) CS1: unfit URL CS1 errors: generic name Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Use Indian English from February 2025 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Use dmy dates from February 2025 Short description is different from Wikidata Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images Pages using infobox settlement with possible nickname list Coordinates on Wikidata Pages with Hindi IPA Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2011 All articles containing potentially dated statements Wikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2024 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2024 This page was last edited on 22 February 2025, at 17:59 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Gurgaon 62 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_technology
Information technology - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Data processing Toggle Data processing subsection 2.1 Storage 2.1.1 Databases 2.2 Transmission 2.3 Manipulation 3 Services Toggle Services subsection 3.1 Email 3.2 Search system 4 Commercial effects Toggle Commercial effects subsection 4.1 Information services 4.2 Ethics 5 IT projects 6 See also 7 Notes 8 References Toggle References subsection 8.1 Citations 8.2 Bibliography 9 Further reading 10 External links Toggle the table of contents Information technology 118 languages Afrikaans Alemannisch العربية Aragonés অসমীয়া Asturianu Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Български Bosanski Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Fiji Hindi Français Gaeilge Gaelg Galego 贛語 گیلکی 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Ido Bahasa Indonesia IsiZulu Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული Қазақша Kiswahili Kriyòl gwiyannen Кыргызча ລາວ Latina Latviešu Lietuvių Limburgs Livvinkarjala Magyar मैथिली Македонски മലയാളം मराठी مصرى Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau Mirandés Мокшень Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan Олык марий ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی پښتو Patois ភាសាខ្មែរ Piemontèis Polski Português Qaraqalpaqsha Română Русиньскый Русский Саха тыла Setswana Shqip සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча / tatarça ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt Winaray Wolof 吴语 ייִדיש 粵語 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikibooks Wikiquote Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Computer-based technology "IT" redirects here. For the customer service colloquially referred to as "IT", see Tech support . For other uses, see It (disambiguation) . "Infotech" redirects here; not to be confused with Infotech Enterprises . For the political group, see Information Technology (constituency) . Information science General aspects Access Architecture Behavior Management Retrieval Seeking Society Knowledge organization Ontology Philosophy Science and technology studies Taxonomy Related fields and subfields Bibliometrics Categorization Censorship Classification Computer data storage Cultural studies Data modeling Informatics Information technology Intellectual freedom Intellectual property Library and information science Memory Preservation Privacy Quantum information science v t e Information technology ( IT ) is a set of related fields within information and communications technology (ICT), that encompass computer systems, software , programming languages , data and information processing, and storage. [ 1 ] Information technology is an application of computer science and computer engineering . The term is commonly used as a synonym for computers and computer networks , but it also encompasses other information distribution technologies such as television and telephones . Several products or services within an economy are associated with information technology, including computer hardware , software , electronics, semiconductors, internet , telecom equipment , and e-commerce . [ 2 ] [ a ] An information technology system ( IT system ) is generally an information system , a communications system , or, more specifically speaking, a computer system — including all hardware , software , and peripheral equipment — operated by a limited group of IT users, and an IT project usually refers to the commissioning and implementation of an IT system. [ 4 ] IT systems play a vital role in facilitating efficient data management, enhancing communication networks, and supporting organizational processes across various industries. Successful IT projects require meticulous planning and ongoing maintenance to ensure optimal functionality and alignment with organizational objectives. [ 5 ] Although humans have been storing, retrieving, manipulating, analysing and communicating information since the earliest writing systems were developed, [ 6 ] the term information technology in its modern sense first appeared in a 1958 article published in the Harvard Business Review ; authors Harold J. Leavitt and Thomas L. Whisler commented that "the new technology does not yet have a single established name. We shall call it information technology (IT)." [ 7 ] Their definition consists of three categories: techniques for processing, the application of statistical and mathematical methods to decision-making , and the simulation of higher-order thinking through computer programs. [ 7 ] History [ edit ] Zuse Z3 replica on display at Deutsches Museum in Munich . The Zuse Z3 is the first programmable computer. Main article: History of computing hardware This is the Antikythera mechanism , which is considered the first mechanical analog computer, dating back to the first century BC. Based on the storage and processing technologies employed, it is possible to distinguish four distinct phases of IT development: pre-mechanical (3000 BC – 1450 AD), mechanical (1450 – 1840), electromechanical (1840 – 1940), and electronic (1940 to present). [ 6 ] Ideas of computer science were first mentioned before the 1950s under the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Harvard University , where they had discussed and began thinking of computer circuits and numerical calculations.  As time went on, the field of information technology and computer science became more complex and was able to handle the processing of more data. Scholarly articles began to be published from different organizations. [ 8 ] During the early computing, Alan Turing , J. Presper Eckert , and John Mauchly were considered some of the major pioneers of computer technology in the mid-1900s. Giving them such credit for their developments, most of their efforts were focused on designing the first digital computer. Along with that, topics such as artificial intelligence began to be brought up as Turing was beginning to question such technology of the time period. [ 9 ] Devices have been used to aid computation for thousands of years, probably initially in the form of a tally stick . [ 10 ] The Antikythera mechanism , dating from about the beginning of the first century BC, is generally considered the earliest known mechanical analog computer , and the earliest known geared mechanism. [ 11 ] Comparable geared devices did not emerge in Europe until the 16th century, and it was not until 1645 that the first mechanical calculator capable of performing the four basic arithmetical operations was developed. [ 12 ] Electronic computers , using either relays or valves , began to appear in the early 1940s. The electromechanical Zuse Z3 , completed in 1941, was the world's first programmable computer, and by modern standards one of the first machines that could be considered a complete computing machine. During the Second World War , Colossus developed the first electronic digital computer to decrypt German messages. Although it was programmable , it was not general-purpose, being designed to perform only a single task. It also lacked the ability to store its program in memory; programming was carried out using plugs and switches to alter the internal wiring. [ 13 ] The first recognizably modern electronic digital stored-program computer was the Manchester Baby , which ran its first program on 21 June 1948. [ 14 ] The development of transistors in the late 1940s at Bell Laboratories allowed a new generation of computers to be designed with greatly reduced power consumption. The first commercially available stored-program computer, the Ferranti Mark I , contained 4050 valves and had a power consumption of 25 kilowatts. By comparison, the first transistorized computer developed at the University of Manchester and operational by November 1953, consumed only 150 watts in its final version. [ 15 ] Several other breakthroughs in semiconductor technology include the integrated circuit (IC) invented by Jack Kilby at Texas Instruments and Robert Noyce at Fairchild Semiconductor in 1959,  silicon dioxide surface passivation by Carl Frosch and Lincoln Derick in 1955, [ 16 ] the first planar silicon dioxide transistors by Frosch and Derick in 1957, [ 17 ] the MOSFET demonstration by a Bell Labs team, [ 18 ] [ 19 ] [ 20 ] [ 21 ] the planar process by Jean Hoerni in 1959, [ 22 ] [ 23 ] [ 24 ] and the microprocessor invented by Ted Hoff , Federico Faggin , Masatoshi Shima , and Stanley Mazor at Intel in 1971. These important inventions led to the development of the personal computer (PC) in the 1970s, and the emergence of information and communications technology (ICT). [ 25 ] By 1984, according to the National Westminster Bank Quarterly Review , the term information technology had been redefined as "the convergence of telecommunications and computing technology (…generally known in Britain as information technology)."  We then begin to see the appearance of the term in 1990 contained within documents for the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). [ 26 ] Innovations in technology have already revolutionized the world by the twenty-first century as people have gained access different online services. This has changed the workforce drastically as thirty percent of U.S. workers were already in careers in this profession. 136.9 million people were personally connected to the Internet , which was equivalent to 51 million households. [ 27 ] Along with the Internet, new types of technology were also being introduced across the globe, which has improved efficiency and made things easier across the globe. Along with technology revolutionizing society, millions of processes could be done in seconds. Innovations in communication were also crucial as people began to rely on the computer to communicate through telephone lines and cable. The introduction of the email was considered revolutionary as "companies in one part of the world could communicate by e-mail with suppliers and buyers in another part of the world...". [ 28 ] Not only personally, computers and technology have also revolutionized the marketing industry, resulting in more buyers of their products. In 2002, Americans exceeded $28 billion in goods just over the Internet alone while e-commerce a decade later resulted in $289 billion in sales. [ 28 ] And as computers are rapidly becoming more sophisticated by the day, they are becoming more used as people are becoming more reliant on them during the twenty-first century. Data processing [ edit ] Main article: Electronic data processing Ferranti Mark I computer logic board Storage [ edit ] Punched tapes were used in early computers to store and represent data . Main article: Data storage Early electronic computers such as Colossus made use of punched tape , a long strip of paper on which data was represented by a series of holes, a technology now obsolete. [ 29 ] Electronic data storage, which is used in modern computers, dates from World War II, when a form of delay-line memory was developed to remove the clutter from radar signals, the first practical application of which was the mercury delay line. [ 30 ] The first random-access digital storage device was the Williams tube , which was based on a standard cathode ray tube . [ 31 ] However, the information stored in it and delay-line memory was volatile in the fact that it had to be continuously refreshed, and thus was lost once power was removed. The earliest form of non-volatile computer storage was the magnetic drum , invented in 1932 [ 32 ] and used in the Ferranti Mark 1 , the world's first commercially available general-purpose electronic computer. [ 33 ] IBM introduced the first hard disk drive in 1956, as a component of their 305 RAMAC computer system. [ 34 ] : 6 Most digital data today is still stored magnetically on hard disks, or optically on media such as CD-ROMs . [ 35 ] : 4–5 Until 2002 most information was stored on analog devices , but that year digital storage capacity exceeded analog for the first time. As of 2007 [update] , almost 94% of the data stored worldwide was held digitally: [ 36 ] 52% on hard disks, 28% on optical devices, and 11% on digital magnetic tape. It has been estimated that the worldwide capacity to store information on electronic devices grew from less than 3 exabytes in 1986 to 295 exabytes in 2007, [ 37 ] doubling roughly every 3 years. [ 38 ] Databases [ edit ] Main article: Database Database Management Systems (DMS) emerged in the 1960s to address the problem of storing and retrieving large amounts of data accurately and quickly. An early such system was IBM 's Information Management System (IMS), [ 39 ] which is still widely deployed more than 50 years later. [ 40 ] IMS stores data hierarchically , [ 39 ] but in the 1970s Ted Codd proposed an alternative relational storage model based on set theory and predicate logic and the familiar concepts of tables, rows, and columns. In 1981, the first commercially available relational database management system (RDBMS) was released by Oracle . [ 41 ] All DMS consist of components; they allow the data they store to be accessed simultaneously by many users while maintaining its integrity. [ 42 ] All databases are common in one point that the structure of the data they contain is defined and stored separately from the data itself, in a database schema . [ 39 ] In recent years, the extensible markup language (XML) has become a popular format for data representation. Although XML data can be stored in normal file systems , it is commonly held in relational databases to take advantage of their "robust implementation verified by years of both theoretical and practical effort." [ 43 ] As an evolution of the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML), XML's text-based structure offers the advantage of being both machine- and human-readable . [ 44 ] Transmission [ edit ] IBM card storage warehouse located in Alexandria, Virginia in 1959. This is where the government kept storage of punched cards. Data transmission has three aspects: transmission, propagation, and reception. [ 45 ] It can be broadly categorized as broadcasting , in which information is transmitted unidirectionally downstream, or telecommunications , with bidirectional upstream and downstream channels. [ 37 ] XML has been increasingly employed as a means of data interchange since the early 2000s, [ 46 ] particularly for machine-oriented interactions such as those involved in web-oriented protocols such as SOAP , [ 44 ] describing "data-in-transit rather than... data-at-rest". [ 46 ] Manipulation [ edit ] Hilbert and Lopez identify the exponential pace of technological change (a kind of Moore's law ): machines' application-specific capacity to compute information per capita roughly doubled every 14 months between 1986 and 2007; the per capita capacity of the world's general-purpose computers doubled every 18 months during the same two decades; the global telecommunication capacity per capita doubled every 34 months; the world's storage capacity per capita required roughly 40 months to double (every 3 years); and per capita broadcast information has doubled every 12.3 years. [ 37 ] Massive amounts of data are stored worldwide every day, but unless it can be analyzed and presented effectively it essentially resides in what have been called data tombs: "data archives that are seldom visited". [ 47 ] To address that issue, the field of data mining — "the process of discovering interesting patterns and knowledge from large amounts of data" [ 48 ] — emerged in the late 1980s. [ 49 ] Services [ edit ] Email [ edit ] The technology and services IT provides for sending and receiving electronic messages (called "letters" or "electronic letters") over a distributed (including global) computer network. In terms of the composition of elements and the principle of operation, electronic mail practically repeats the system of regular (paper) mail, borrowing both terms (mail, letter, envelope, attachment, box, delivery, and others) and characteristic features — ease of use, message transmission delays, sufficient reliability and at the same time no guarantee of delivery. The advantages of e-mail are: easily perceived and remembered by a person addresses of the form user_name@domain_name (for example, somebody@example.com); the ability to transfer both plain text and formatted, as well as arbitrary files; independence of servers (in the general case, they address each other directly); sufficiently high reliability of message delivery; ease of use by humans and programs. The disadvantages of e-mail include: the presence of such a phenomenon as spam (massive advertising and viral mailings); the theoretical impossibility of guaranteed delivery of a particular letter; possible delays in message delivery (up to several days); limits on the size of one message and on the total size of messages in the mailbox (personal for users). Search system [ edit ] A search system is software and hardware complex with a web interface that provides the ability to search for information on the Internet. A search engine usually means a site that hosts the interface (front-end) of the system. The software part of a search engine is a search engine (search engine) — a set of programs that provides the functionality of a search engine and is usually a trade secret of the search engine developer company. Most search engines look for information on World Wide Web sites, but there are also systems that can look for files on FTP servers, items in online stores, and information on Usenet newsgroups. Improving search is one of the priorities of the modern Internet (see the Deep Web article about the main problems in the work of search engines). Commercial effects [ edit ] Companies in the information technology field are often discussed as a group as the "tech sector" or the "tech industry." [ 50 ] [ 51 ] [ 52 ] These titles can be misleading at times and should not be mistaken for "tech companies," which are generally large scale, for-profit corporations that sell consumer technology and software.  It is also worth noting that from a business perspective, information technology departments are a " cost center " the majority of the time.  A cost center is a department or staff which incurs expenses, or "costs," within a company rather than generating profits or revenue streams. Modern businesses rely heavily on technology for their day-to-day operations, so the expenses delegated to cover technology that facilitates business in a more efficient manner are usually seen as "just the cost of doing business."  IT departments are allocated funds by senior leadership and must attempt to achieve the desired deliverables while staying within that budget. Government and the private sector might have different funding mechanisms, but the principles are more or less the same. This is an often overlooked reason for the rapid interest in automation and artificial intelligence , but the constant pressure to do more with less is opening the door for automation to take control of at least some minor operations in large companies. Many companies now have IT departments for managing the computers , networks, and other technical areas of their businesses. Companies have also sought to integrate IT with business outcomes and decision-making through a BizOps or business operations department. [ 53 ] In a business context, the Information Technology Association of America has defined information technology as "the study, design, development, application, implementation, support, or management of computer-based information systems". [ 54 ] [ page needed ] The responsibilities of those working in the field include network administration, software development and installation, and the planning and management of an organization's technology life cycle, by which hardware and software are maintained, upgraded, and replaced. Information services [ edit ] Information services is a term somewhat loosely applied to a variety of IT-related services offered by commercial companies, [ 55 ] [ 56 ] [ 57 ] as well as data brokers . U.S. Employment distribution of computer systems design and related services, 2011 [ 58 ] U.S. Employment in the computer systems and design related services industry, in thousands, 1990–2011 [ 58 ] U.S. Occupational growth and wages in computer systems design and related services, 2010–2020 [ 58 ] U.S. projected percent change in employment in selected occupations in computer systems design and related services, 2010–2020 [ 58 ] U.S. projected average annual percent change in output and employment in selected industries, 2010–2020 [ 58 ] Ethics [ edit ] Main article: Information ethics The field of information ethics was established by mathematician Norbert Wiener in the 1940s. [ 59 ] : 9 Some of the ethical issues associated with the use of information technology include: [ 60 ] : 20–21 Breaches of copyright by those downloading files stored without the permission of the copyright holders Employers monitoring their employees' emails and other Internet usage Unsolicited emails Hackers accessing online databases Web sites installing cookies or spyware to monitor a user's online activities, which may be used by data brokers IT projects [ edit ] Research suggests that IT projects in business and public administration can easily become significant in scale. Work conducted by McKinsey in collaboration with the University of Oxford suggested that half of all large-scale IT projects (those with initial cost estimates of $15 million or more) often failed to maintain costs within their initial budgets or to complete on time. [ 61 ] See also [ edit ] Information and communications technology (ICT) IT infrastructure Outline of information technology Knowledge society Notes [ edit ] ^ On the later more broad application of the term IT, Keary comments: "In its original application 'information technology' was appropriate to describe the convergence of technologies with application in the vast field of data storage, retrieval, processing, and dissemination. This useful conceptual term has since been converted to what purports to be of great  use, but without the reinforcement of definition ... the term IT lacks substance when applied to the name of any function, discipline, or position." [ 3 ] References [ edit ] Citations [ edit ] ^ Cosker, Glynn (2023), "What Is Information Technology? A Beginner's Guide to the World of IT" , Technology Blog, Rasmussen University . ^ Chandler, Daniel; Munday, Rod (10 February 2011), "Information technology", A Dictionary of Media and Communication (first ed.), Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0199568758 , retrieved 1 August 2012 , Commonly a synonym for computers and computer networks but more broadly designating any technology that is used to generate, store, process, and/or distribute information electronically, including television and telephone. . ^ Ralston, Hemmendinger & Reilly (2000) , p. 869. ^ Forbes Technology Council, 16 Key Steps To Successful IT Project Management , published 10 September 2020, accessed 23 June 2023 ^ Hindarto, Djarot (30 August 2023). "The Management of Projects is Improved Through Enterprise Architecture on Project Management Application Systems" . International Journal Software Engineering and Computer Science (IJSECS) . 3 (2): 151– 161. doi : 10.35870/ijsecs.v3i2.1512 . ISSN 2776-3242 . ^ a b Butler, Jeremy G., A History of Information Technology and Systems , University of Arizona, archived from the original on 5 August 2012 , retrieved 2 August 2012 ^ a b Leavitt, Harold J.; Whisler, Thomas L. (1958), "Management in the 1980s" , Harvard Business Review , 11 . ^ Slotten, Hugh Richard (1 January 2014). The Oxford Encyclopedia of the History of American Science, Medicine, and Technology . Oxford University Press. doi : 10.1093/acref/9780199766666.001.0001 . ISBN 978-0-19-976666-6 . ^ Henderson, H. (2017). computer science. In H. Henderson, Facts on File science library: Encyclopedia of computer science and technology . (3rd ed.). [Online]. New York: Facts On File. ^ Schmandt-Besserat, Denise (1981), "Decipherment of the earliest tablets", Science , 211 (4479): 283– 285, Bibcode : 1981Sci...211..283S , doi : 10.1126/science.211.4479.283 , ISSN 0036-8075 , PMID 17748027 . ^ Wright (2012) , p. 279. ^ Chaudhuri (2004) , p. 3. ^ Lavington (1980) , p. 11. ^ Enticknap, Nicholas (Summer 1998), "Computing's Golden Jubilee" , Resurrection (20), ISSN 0958-7403 , archived from the original on 9 January 2012 , retrieved 19 April 2008 . ^ Cooke-Yarborough, E. H. (June 1998), "Some early transistor applications in the UK", Engineering Science & Education Journal , 7 (3): 100– 106, doi : 10.1049/esej:19980301 (inactive 7 December 2024), ISSN 0963-7346 {{ citation }} :  CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of December 2024 ( link ) . ^ US2802760A , Lincoln, Derick & Frosch, Carl J., "Oxidation of semiconductive surfaces for controlled diffusion", issued 1957-08-13 ^ Frosch, C. J.; Derick, L (1957). "Surface Protection and Selective Masking during Diffusion in Silicon" . Journal of the Electrochemical Society . 104 (9): 547. doi : 10.1149/1.2428650 . ^ KAHNG, D. (1961). "Silicon-Silicon Dioxide Surface Device" . Technical Memorandum of Bell Laboratories : 583– 596. doi : 10.1142/9789814503464_0076 . ISBN 978-981-02-0209-5 . ^ Lojek, Bo (2007). History of Semiconductor Engineering . Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg. p. 321. ISBN 978-3-540-34258-8 . ^ Ligenza, J.R.; Spitzer, W.G. (1960). "The mechanisms for silicon oxidation in steam and oxygen" . Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids . 14 : 131– 136. Bibcode : 1960JPCS...14..131L . doi : 10.1016/0022-3697(60)90219-5 . ^ Lojek, Bo (2007). History of Semiconductor Engineering . Springer Science & Business Media . p. 120. ISBN 9783540342588 . ^ Lojek, Bo (2007). History of Semiconductor Engineering . Springer Science & Business Media . pp. 120 & 321–323. ISBN 9783540342588 . ^ Bassett, Ross Knox (2007). To the Digital Age: Research Labs, Start-up Companies, and the Rise of MOS Technology . Johns Hopkins University Press . p. 46. ISBN 9780801886393 . ^ US 3025589 Hoerni, J. A.: "Method of Manufacturing Semiconductor Devices" filed May 1, 1959 ^ "Advanced information on the Nobel Prize in Physics 2000" (PDF) . Nobel Prize . June 2018. Archived (PDF) from the original on 17 August 2019 . Retrieved 17 December 2019 . ^ Information technology. (2003). In E.D. Reilly, A. Ralston & D. Hemmendinger (Eds.), Encyclopedia of computer science . (4th ed.). ^ Stewart, C.M. (2018). Computers. In S. Bronner (Ed.), Encyclopedia of American studies . [Online]. Johns Hopkins University Press. ^ a b Northrup, C.C. (2013). Computers. In C. Clark Northrup (Ed.), Encyclopedia of world trade: from ancient times to the present . [Online]. London: Routledge. ^ Alavudeen & Venkateshwaran (2010) , p. 178. ^ Lavington (1998) , p. 1. ^ "Early computers at Manchester University" , Resurrection , 1 (4), Summer 1992, ISSN 0958-7403 , archived from the original on 28 August 2017 , retrieved 19 April 2008 . ^ Universität Klagenfurt (ed.), "Magnetic drum" , Virtual Exhibitions in Informatics , archived from the original on 21 June 2006 , retrieved 21 August 2011 . ^ The Manchester Mark 1 , University of Manchester, archived from the original on 21 November 2008 , retrieved 24 January 2009 . ^ Khurshudov, Andrei (2001), The Essential Guide to Computer Data Storage: From Floppy to DVD , Prentice Hall, ISBN 978-0-130-92739-2 . ^ Wang, Shan X.; Taratorin, Aleksandr Markovich (1999), Magnetic Information Storage Technology , Academic Press, ISBN 978-0-12-734570-3 . ^ Wu, Suzanne, "How Much Information Is There in the World?" , USC News , University of Southern California , retrieved 10 September 2013 . ^ a b c Hilbert, Martin; López, Priscila (1 April 2011), "The World's Technological Capacity to Store, Communicate, and Compute Information", Science , 332 (6025): 60– 65, Bibcode : 2011Sci...332...60H , doi : 10.1126/science.1200970 , PMID 21310967 , S2CID 206531385 . ^ "Americas events – Video animation on The World's Technological Capacity to Store, Communicate, and Compute Information from 1986 to 2010" . The Economist . Archived from the original on 18 January 2012. ^ a b c Ward & Dafoulas (2006) , p. 2. ^ Olofson, Carl W. (October 2009), A Platform for Enterprise Data Services (PDF) , IDC , archived from the original (PDF) on 25 December 2013 , retrieved 7 August 2012 . ^ Ward & Dafoulas (2006) , p. 3. ^ Silberschatz, Abraham (2010). Database System Concepts . McGraw-Hill Higher Education. ISBN 978-0-07-741800-7 . . ^ Pardede (2009) , p. 2. ^ a b Pardede (2009) , p. 4. ^ Weik (2000) , p. 361. ^ a b Pardede (2009) , p. xiii. ^ Han, Kamber & Pei (2011) , p. 5. ^ Han, Kamber & Pei (2011) , p. 8. ^ Han, Kamber & Pei (2011) , p. xxiii. ^ "Technology Sector Snapshot" . The New York Times . Archived from the original on 13 January 2017 . Retrieved 12 January 2017 . ^ "Our programmes, campaigns and partnerships" . TechUK . Retrieved 12 January 2017 . ^ "Cyberstates 2016" . CompTIA . Retrieved 12 January 2017 . ^ "Manifesto Hatched to Close Gap Between Business and IT" . TechNewsWorld . 22 October 2020 . Retrieved 22 March 2021 . ^ Proctor, K. Scott (2011), Optimizing and Assessing Information Technology: Improving Business Project Execution , John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-1-118-10263-3 . ^ "Top Information Services companies" . VentureRadar . Retrieved 8 March 2021 . ^ "Follow Information Services on Index.co" . Index.co . Retrieved 8 March 2021 . ^ Publishing, Value Line. "Industry Overview: Information Services" . Value Line . Archived from the original on 20 June 2021 . Retrieved 8 March 2021 . ^ a b c d e Lauren Csorny (9 April 2013). "U.S. Careers in the growing field of information technology services" . U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. ^ Bynum, Terrell Ward (2008), "Norbert Wiener and the Rise of Information Ethics", in van den Hoven, Jeroen; Weckert, John (eds.), Information Technology and Moral Philosophy , Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-85549-5 . ^ Reynolds, George (2009), Ethics in Information Technology , Cengage Learning, ISBN 978-0-538-74622-9 . ^ Bloch, M., Blumberg, S. and Laartz, J., Delivering large-scale IT projects on time, on budget, and on value , published 1 October 2012, accessed 23 June 2023 Bibliography [ edit ] Alavudeen, A.; Venkateshwaran, N. (2010), Computer Integrated Manufacturing , PHI Learning, ISBN 978-81-203-3345-1 Chaudhuri, P. Pal (2004), Computer Organization and Design , PHI Learning, ISBN 978-81-203-1254-8 Han, Jiawei; Kamber, Micheline; Pei, Jian (2011), Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques (3rd ed.), Morgan Kaufmann , ISBN 978-0-12-381479-1 Lavington, Simon (1980), Early British Computers , Manchester University Press, ISBN 978-0-7190-0810-8 Lavington, Simon (1998), A History of Manchester Computers (2nd ed.), The British Computer Society, ISBN 978-1-902505-01-5 Pardede, Eric (2009), Open and Novel Issues in XML Database Applications , Information Science Reference, ISBN 978-1-60566-308-1 Ralston, Anthony; Hemmendinger, David; Reilly, Edwin D., eds. (2000), Encyclopedia of Computer Science (4th ed.), Nature Publishing Group, ISBN 978-1-56159-248-7 van der Aalst, Wil M. P. (2011), Process Mining: Discovery, Conformance and Enhancement of Business Processes , Springer, ISBN 978-3-642-19344-6 Ward, Patricia; Dafoulas, George S. (2006), Database Management Systems , Cengage Learning EMEA, ISBN 978-1-84480-452-8 Weik, Martin (2000), Computer Science and Communications Dictionary , vol. 2, Springer, ISBN 978-0-7923-8425-0 Wright, Michael T. (2012), "The Front Dial of the Antikythera Mechanism", in Koetsier, Teun; Ceccarelli, Marco (eds.), Explorations in the History of Machines and Mechanisms: Proceedings of HMM2012 , Springer, pp. 279– 292, ISBN 978-94-007-4131-7 Further reading [ edit ] Allen, T.; Morton, M. S. Morton, eds. (1994), Information Technology and the Corporation of the 1990s , Oxford University Press . Gitta, Cosmas and South, David (2011). Southern Innovator Magazine Issue 1: Mobile Phones and Information Technology : United Nations Office for South-South Cooperation. ISSN 2222-9280 . Gleick, James (2011). The Information: A History, a Theory, a Flood . New York: Pantheon Books . Price, Wilson T. (1981), Introduction to Computer Data Processing , Holt-Saunders International Editions, ISBN 978-4-8337-0012-2 . Shelly, Gary, Cashman, Thomas, Vermaat, Misty, and Walker, Tim. (1999). Discovering Computers 2000: Concepts for a Connected World . Cambridge , Massachusetts: Course Technology. Webster, Frank, and Robins, Kevin. (1986). Information Technology — A Luddite Analysis . Norwood, NJ: Ablex. External links [ edit ] Learning materials related to Information technology at Wikiversity Media related to Information technology at Wikimedia Commons Quotations related to Information technology at Wikiquote v t e Electronics Branches Analogue electronics Digital electronics Electronic engineering Instrumentation Microelectronics Optoelectronics Power electronics Printed electronics Semiconductor Schematic capture Thermal management Advanced topics 2020s in computing Atomtronics Bioelectronics List of emerging electronics Failure of electronic components Flexible electronics Low-power electronics Molecular electronics Nanoelectronics Organic electronics Photonics Piezotronics Quantum electronics Spintronics Electronic equipment Air conditioner Central heating Clothes dryer Computer / Notebook Camera Dishwasher Freezer Home robot Home cinema Home theater PC Information technology Cooker Microwave oven Mobile phone Networking hardware Portable media player Radio Refrigerator Robotic vacuum cleaner Tablet Telephone Television Water heater Video game console Washing machine Applications Audio equipment Automotive electronics Avionics Control system Data acquisition e-book e-health Electromagnetic warfare Electronics industry Embedded system Home appliance Home automation Integrated circuit Home appliance Consumer electronics Major appliance Small appliance Marine electronics Microwave technology Military electronics Multimedia Nuclear electronics Open-source hardware Radar and Radio navigation Radio electronics Terahertz technology Wired and Wireless Communications v t e Information processing Information processes information processes by function perception attention influence operating communication reasoning learning storing decision-making information processing abstractions event processing sign processesing signal processing data processing stream processing agent processing state processing Information processors natural nature as information processing humans as information processing systems society as information processing system mixed mixed reality brain–computer interface physical computing human–computer interaction artificial processors and processes bio-inspired computing ubiquitous computing artificial brain and mind uploading virtual reality virtual world Information processing theories and concepts in biology computational and systems biology genetic informatics and cellular computing computational neuroscience and neurocomputing in cognitive psychology information processing theory mind and intelligence cognitive informatics and neuroinformatics behavior informatics in computer science neural computation computation theory algorithms and information structures computational circuits artificial intelligence in philosophy computational theory of mind philosophy of information philosophy of artificial intelligence interdisciplinary information theory decision theory systems theory other infosphere inforg Decoding the Universe information overload Authority control databases National Germany Japan Czech Republic Other Encyclopedia of Modern Ukraine Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Information_technology&oldid=1276272110 " Categories : Computers Information technology Intellectual capital Mass media technology Hidden categories: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of December 2024 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from September 2016 Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2007 All articles containing potentially dated statements Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from September 2017 Commons category link from Wikidata This page was last edited on 17 February 2025, at 21:59 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Information technology 118 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fortune_500
Fortune 500 - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 History 2 Methodology 3 Influence 4 Overview Toggle Overview subsection 4.1 Breakdown by state 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Toggle the table of contents Fortune 500 36 languages العربية Asturianu Azərbaycanca Čeština Deutsch Español Esperanto فارسی Français 한국어 हिन्दी Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Қазақша Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча Polski Português Română Русский Scots Simple English Slovenčina Suomi தமிழ் Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 粵語 Žemaitėška 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Annual list of largest US corporations The July 24, 2006 issue of Fortune , featuring its Fortune 500 list The Fortune 500 is an annual list compiled and published by Fortune magazine that ranks 500 of the largest United States corporations by total revenue for their respective fiscal years. [ 1 ] The list includes publicly held companies , along with privately held companies for which revenues are publicly available. The concept of the Fortune 500 was created by Edgar P. Smith, a Fortune editor, and the first list was published in 1955. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] The Fortune 500 is more commonly used than its subset Fortune 100 or superset Fortune 1000 . [ 4 ] History [ edit ] The Fortune 500, created by Edgar P. Smith, was first published in January 1955. [ 2 ] The original top ten companies were General Motors , Jersey Standard , U.S. Steel , General Electric , Esmark , Chrysler , Armour , Gulf Oil , Mobil , and DuPont . [ 5 ] Methodology [ edit ] The original Fortune 500 was limited to companies whose revenues were derived from manufacturing, mining, and energy exploration. [ 6 ] At the same time, Fortune published companion " Fortune 50" lists of the 50 largest commercial banks (ranked by assets), utilities (ranked by assets), life insurance companies (ranked by assets), retailers (ranked by gross revenues) and transportation companies (ranked by revenues). Fortune magazine changed its methodology in 1994 to include service companies. With the change came 291 new entrants to the famous list including three in the Top 10. [ 7 ] Influence [ edit ] As of 2020, the Fortune 500 companies represent approximately two-thirds of the United States' gross domestic product with approximately $14.2 trillion in revenue, $1.2 trillion in profits, and $20.4 trillion in total market value. These revenue figures also account for approximately 18% of the gross world product . The companies collectively employ a total of 29.2 million people worldwide, or nearly 0.4% of the world's total population . [ 8 ] Overview [ edit ] The following is the list of top 20 companies. [ 9 ] Fortune 500 list of 2024 Rank Company State Industry Revenue in USD 1 Walmart Arkansas General merchandisers $648.1 billion 2 Amazon Washington Internet services and retailing $574.8 billion 3 Apple California Computers, office equipment $383.3 billion 4 UnitedHealth Group Minnesota Health care: insurance and managed care $371.6 billion 5 Berkshire Hathaway Nebraska Insurance: property and casualty (stock) $364.5 billion 6 CVS Health Rhode Island Health care: pharmacy and other services $357.8 billion 7 ExxonMobil Texas Petroleum refining $344.6 billion 8 Alphabet Inc. California Internet services and retailing $307.4 billion 9 McKesson Corporation Texas Wholesalers: health care $276.7 billion 10 Cencora Pennsylvania Wholesalers: health care $262.2 billion 11 Costco Washington General merchandisers $242.3 billion 12 JPMorgan Chase New York Commercial banks $239.4 billion 13 Microsoft Washington Computer software $211.9 billion 14 Cardinal Health Ohio Wholesalers: health care $205.0 billion 15 Chevron Corporation California Petroleum refining $200.9 billion 16 Cigna Connecticut Health care: pharmacy and other services $195.3 billion 17 Ford Motor Company Michigan Motor vehicles & parts $176.2 billion 18 Bank of America North Carolina Commercial banks $171.9 billion 19 General Motors Michigan Motor vehicles & parts $171.8 billion 20 Elevance Health Indiana Health care: insurance and managed care $171.3 billion Breakdown by state [ edit ] This is the list of the top 18 states with the most companies within the Fortune 500 as of 2024. [ 10 ] Breakdown by state Rank State Companies 1 California 57 2 New York 52 Texas 52 4 Illinois 32 5 Ohio 27 6 Virginia 24 7 Florida 22 8 Pennsylvania 20 9 Georgia 18 10 Minnesota 17 11 Massachusetts 16 Michigan 16 13 Connecticut 15 14 New Jersey 14 15 North Carolina 12 Washington 12 17 Arizona 10 Tennessee 10 See also [ edit ] United States portal Companies portal 40 Under 40 Fortune Global 500 Fortune India 500 Fortune 1000 List of largest companies in the United States by revenue List of largest companies by revenue List of Fortune 500 computer software and information companies List of women CEOs of Fortune 500 companies Forbes Global 2000 Total Fortune 1000 companies by urban area list References [ edit ] ^ "Fortune 500" . Fortune . Retrieved 2024-06-05 . ^ a b "Edgar Smith, 69, Dies; Retired Time Executive" . The New York Times . October 12, 1989 . Retrieved March 1, 2016 . ^ "1955 Full list" . Fortune . Retrieved March 1, 2016 . ^ Williams, Sean (June 4, 2015). " Fortune 100: Everything You've Ever Wanted to Know About This Popular Annual Ranking" . The Motley Fool . Retrieved March 1, 2016 . ^ "What happened to the first Fortune 500?" . Fortune . Retrieved March 24, 2017 . ^ Semczuk, Nina (2024-03-13). "What Are Fortune 500 Companies?" . Bankrate . Retrieved 2024-05-22 . ^ Groves, Martha (April 26, 1995). "Service Now Counts with Fortune 500" . Los Angeles Times . Retrieved October 12, 2017 . ^ Klooster, Alison (May 18, 2020). "FORTUNE Announces 2020 FORTUNE 500 List, Launches First Ever "History Of The FORTUNE 500" Data Analytics Visualization Site With Partner Qli" . Fortune . Retrieved October 1, 2020 – via Cision PR Newswire. ^ "Fortune 500 List of Companies 2022" . Fortune . Retrieved July 1, 2022 . ^ "Map: The Number of Fortune 500 Companies in Each U.S. State" . Visual Capitalist . Retrieved November 9, 2024 . External links [ edit ] Official website Full list of Fortune 500 companies: 1955–2005 , 2006 , 2007 , 2008 , 2009 , 2010 , 2011 , 2012 , 2013 , 2014 , 2015 , 2016 , 2017 , 2018 , 2019 , 2020 , 2021 , 2022 v t e Fortune Top editors Parker Lloyd-Smith Ralph Ingersoll Eric Hodgins Russell Davenport Richardson Wood Ralph D. Paine, Jr. Hedley Donovan Duncan Norton-Taylor Louis Banks Robert Lubar William S. Rukeyser Marshall Loeb Walter Keichel III John Huey Richard Kirkland Eric Pooley Andrew Serwer Alan Murray Clifton Leaf Alyson Shontell Editorial staff Geoffrey Colvin John Curran Nina Easton Alfred Winslow Jones David Kirkpatrick Carol Loomis John McDonald Bethany McLean Roger Parloff Daniel Seligman Allan Sloan Herbert Solow Alvin Toffler Shawn Tully Lists Fortune 500 Global 500 India 500 Global 2000 40 Under 40 100 Best Companies to Work For Conferences Fortune Brainstorm Tech Fortune Global Forum Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fortune_500&oldid=1278926790 " Categories : Lists of companies by revenue Fortune (magazine) Top lists Annual magazine issues Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use American English from March 2025 All Wikipedia articles written in American English This page was last edited on 5 March 2025, at 13:35 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Fortune 500 36 languages Add topic


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_City_Gurgaon#cite_note-toi1-1
Cyber City Gurgaon - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Transport 2 Entertainment 3 Gateway Tower 4 Cyber Greens 5 Cyber-Hub 6 Gallery 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Coordinates : 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Corporate park in Haryana, India Cyber City DLF Cyber City Corporate park Nickname: Cyber City Coordinates: 28°29′40″N 77°05′26″E ﻿ / ﻿ 28.49444°N 77.09056°E ﻿ / 28.49444; 77.09056 Country India DLF Cyber City is a commercial area in Gurugram , Haryana, India, which was opened in 2003. The area is home to several top IT and Fortune 500 company offices. [ 1 ] The area has been termed a "futuristic commercial hub" [ 2 ] and is considered one of the largest hubs of IT activity in Delhi NCR . Cyber City lies near Udyog Vihar , which is a conventional industrial area on the opposite side of NH-48. Cyber Hub is a large shopping and eating area with a number of leading restaurants and shops , which caters primarily to the people working in DLF Cyber City. Transport [ edit ] In 2013, Rapid Metro was introduced to Cyber City, connecting it with Delhi Metro . [ 1 ] Six operational stations are within the Cyber City. The National Highway 48 (NH-48) runs through Cyber City and a project to construct a 16-lane expressway is also in progress. [ 3 ] A flyover between Cyber City and MG Road was opened in 2015 to reduce traffic congestion. [ 4 ] The Indira Gandhi International Airport is located close to the Cyber City. Delhi Metro 's Phase 4 includes the extension of the Yellow Line from its current Southern terminus at Huda City Centre (now known as Millennium City Centre) further south of Cyber City. This will ensure another option for people staying in the heart of Delhi at Rajiv Chowk to directly access this district ensuring better connectivity to the suburban business centres from Central Delhi. Entertainment [ edit ] Cyber hub is situated in the cyber city and consists of various clothing brands like Decathlon , Marks and Spencer , Nike , Skechers , The Body Shop , Chumbak, UNIQLO and a large bookshop called "The crossword". Not only clothing and stationery but the cyber hub complex also consists of a KIA MOTORS dealership. It is a hub for food lovers, and it contains food outlets such as Dominos , The Big Chill , Nando's , Haldirams , Yeti, Farzi Cafe, The Wine Co, Yum Yum Cha, Tablespoon, etc. [ 5 ] Gateway Tower [ edit ] The Gateway Tower The Gateway Tower is a high-rise building at the entrance of the Cyber City that houses the headquarters of DLF (company) . Being a LEED Platinum Certified building, it is called so as it acts as a gateway to the 3000-acre landmark city of DLF. This 12-story complex is spread across an area of 0.11 mn sq. ft. With its ship-like shape, Gateway Tower presents futuristic architecture, which is also reflected in its interiors. [ 6 ] The unique feature of this complex is its high visibility levels and compact office space. [ 6 ] Cyber Greens [ edit ] Cyber Green Building in June 2007 Cyber Greens, a LEED Platinum Certified building, is spread across an area of 0.91 mn sq. ft. The complex constitutes five blocks each, scaling to 11-19 stories. Located just off National Highway-8 at the entrance of Gurugram, it is well connected to domestic and international airports, rapid metro, 16-lane Raghavendra Marg and walkways. [ 7 ] Cyber Greens is the first project in which DLF pioneered the concept of an amenities block and provision for breakout areas. [ 7 ] Cyber-Hub [ edit ] Cyber-Hub Cyber Hub is a massive courtyard within Cyber City and is considered as a hub of food and beverages in Gurugram. The DLF Cyber Hub, which was opened in 2013, has an area of about 400,000 square feet (37,000 m 2 ), with cafes, restaurants, pubs, a standup comedy venue, The people & co., and a Broadway style theatre. There is an open-air amphitheater that plays host to weekend cultural & art shows and rock concerts. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] Gallery [ edit ] Gateway Tower in Cyber City Cyber Green building in 2007 DLF Cyber Hub A commercial area in DLF Cyber City A view of Cyber City from a walkway above the highway Cyber City at night DLF Epitome Tower, Gurugram DLF Cyber City, DLF Phase 2 A building in Cyber City See also [ edit ] Electronic City in Bangalore HITEC City in Hyderabad Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai Hinjawadi in Pune Genome Valley Whitefield, Bangalore New Town, Kolkata Bidhannagar, Kolkata Bengal Silicon Valley Tech Hub FinTech Hub, Kolkata InfoPark, Kochi References [ edit ] ^ a b " 'Cyber city' Gurgaon finally gets a public transport" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "The Gurgaon story: A mirror to India's growth" . NDTV . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Diversion, rain trigger Cyber City chaos" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ "Flyover brings Cyber City closer to MG Road" . The Times of India . Retrieved 19 September 2015 . ^ City, So (10 November 2023). "12 Awesome Eateries In Cyber Hub To Indulge In Finger-Licking Global Delights" . So City . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ a b "DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram" . DLF Gateway Tower Futuristic Architecture - DLF Cybercity Gurugram . Retrieved 30 March 2024 . ^ a b "Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview" . Cyber Greens, DLF Cyber City - Green Office Complex Overview . Retrieved 20 February 2024 . ^ "DLF Cyberhub - About us" . HaloBee. Archived from the original on 24 June 2018 . Retrieved 19 January 2018 . ^ Anand, Shambhavi; Bailay, Rasul (1 February 2017). "Cyber city Gurgaon to become the new dining destination of Delhi NCR" . The Economic Times . Retrieved 6 June 2019 . External links [ edit ] Official Website of DLF Cyber City Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyber_City_Gurgaon&oldid=1259497143 " Categories : Economy of Gurgaon Economy of Haryana Industrial parks in India Business parks of India Hidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlas Use dmy dates from December 2017 Use Indian English from December 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox settlement with no map Pages using the Kartographer extension This page was last edited on 25 November 2024, at 14:27 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Cyber City Gurgaon Add languages Add topic


